Introduction

International student mobility has become an important phenomenon in modern higher education, reflecting the speed of the development of globalisation and the increased interconnectivity of institutional systems on a global scale. The transnational migration of students for tertiary education has grown at an exponential rate in the last two decades so that global enrollment figures have reached unprecedented heights.   

Such mobility is driven by a complex nexus of factors that include a desire for a good education, opportunities to build a career, the opportunity to experience other cultures, and the aspiration to develop personally. As states compete to attract international talent, understanding decisionmaking processes and motivational antecedents that guide the choices of students in terms of where to go to school assumes renewed significance for policy makers, academic institutions and academics. 

India has become one of the largest source countries of international students in the world and in the process, is making a significant contribution to global student mobility flows. Driven by a rapidly growing middle class, increasing expectations for world-class education and perceived limitations in the domestic higher education capacity and quality, hundreds of thousands of Indian students pursue studies abroad each year in pursuit of undergraduate and postgraduate degrees.

Historically, Indian students were stick to the Anglophone destinations, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia, due to prestige of the institutions, English language courses and established dispersion. In recent years, however, a noticeable diversification in the choice of destinations has been observed with European countries, especially those with affordable, good quality education, gaining ground among the Indian students. 

The Czech Republic is a part of the emerging and increasingly attractive destination in the changing world of international student mobility. Located at the heart of Central Europe, the Czech Republic offers a unique combination of characteristics that sets it apart from the traditional places of study. The nation is blessed with a well-founded higher education system of a number of historically important universities that are gaining an ever-growing international reputation. Universities within the Czech Republic do provide programmes taught in English in a range of fields, focusing especially on medicine and engineering, business and natural sciences. 

Additionally, the cost of education and the cost of living in the Czech Republic is significantly less than that in Western European countries and English-speaking countries, thus making it an economically best option for middle class families in India. Students have access to travel, cultural exchange, and potential employment prospects in the larger European market due to the country's strategic location inside the European Union.  
 
Moreover, the Czech Republic's high standard of living, rich cultural legacy, and generally safe climate make it a desirable location for academic study. Despite the growing number of Indian students in the Czech higher education institutions, there is still a considerable gap in the empirical knowledge of the determinants shaping the choice of destination. Existing scholarship offers a wealth of information regarding Indian student mobility to traditional host nations, as well as information on generally applicable factors that affect international student decision processes. 

However, there hasn't been much academic research on the precise rationale behind Indian students' preference for the Czech Republic over other options. This deficiency is particularly significant because the Czech Republic is a non-Anglophone, unconventional travel destination that faces competition from both major Western universities and up-and-coming European rivals. A variety of stakeholders, including Czech universities looking to improve their recruitment tactics, Indian educational counselors advising prospective students, policymakers in both countries hoping to strengthen educational ties, and prospective students who stand to gain from an evidence-based understanding of peer experiences and influencing factors, depend on an explanation of the reasons, expectations, and decision-making processes of Indian students choosing the Czech Republic. 

The importance of this investigation goes beyond simply academic interest, and has important contributions to make to the field of international student mobility research. Primarily, it adds to the theoretical knowledge, by analyzing the destination selection from the view point of Self-Determination Theory that puts the emphasis on intrinsic motivation, autonomy, competence and relatedness of human behavior. This framework provides an in-depth account of how psychological needs interact with practical considerations shaping educational migration decisions.   

Second, the study helps to address the pragmatic demand for evidence-based insights which can feed into institutional strategies, marketing and policy interventions, aiming to attract and support Indian students in the Czech Republic.  
Thirdly, by paying attention to an emerging destination, the research is part of the larger debates about the diversification of international student flows and changes in global higher education markets.  

Ultimately, the findings might have implications for the understanding of geographical educational mobility patterns as well as that of the role of non-traditional destinations in providing accessible pathways to international education for students from developing economies. 
 
This dissertation is a systematic study, which examines the factors that affect the decision of Indian students to study for a higher education in the Czech Republic.  By using a quantitative survey methodology within the framework of the Self-Determination Theory and informed by an extensive review of the scholarly literature on student mobility, this study seeks to identify and assess the academic, financial, cultural, social and psychological factors affecting destination choice. 

 The empirical focus herein is narrowed down to Indian university students who are enrolled within Czech institutions and accordingly being able to capture in depth the lived experience, motivation drivers and perceptual construct of the students.Through this investigation, the study aims to contribute to the existing knowledge gap and provide practical information that may contribute to crafting policies that may lead to the Czech Republic's position as a favourable destination for Indian students seeking high quality, affordable and enriching international educational experiences. 

=====================================================================================================================================================

1.	Objectives:
Objective 1: Analyzing which economic factors such as tuition costs, cost of living, availability of scholarship and employment opportunities, attracts Indian students to Czech Republic.
Objective 2: To evaluate the psychological drivers namely the independence, self-growth, career progression, and avoid domestic ambiguities, which drive Indian students to pursue higher education in the Czech Republic.
Objective 3: Current live experiences of Indian students in the Czech Republic links to level of safety, affordability, and career opportunities along with work rights affect the choice of students who may choose to stay in the Czech Republic after graduation
Objective 4: The analysis of the demographic factors such as age, gender, level of degree, and the year of admission, is associated with the key motivation factors that drive students into studying in the Czech Republic.

2.	RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
2.1	The study adopts quantitative research which uses a cross-sectional survey methodology. This will be exploratory and descriptive where the main aim will be establishing patterns, relationships, and trends of the motivational profile of Indian students studying in the Czech Republic. The theoretical background of the research is Self-Determination Theory (SDT), which draws the line between intrinsic motivators (personal development, intellectual interests and autonomy) and extrinsic motivators (monetary gains, degree recognition, and job opportunities).

2.2	Population and sampling

Target population: The target group are the currently enrolled Indian students in the higher education universities in the Czech Republic and the university graduate students working in the country. The time frame of the research includes students who came to 2015-2025 to get wider understanding of the factors. During this decade, multiple changes happened in the world and in Czech Republic. Hence, it’s easy to find out if the factors are the same or not.

Sampling Technique: A non-probability convenience sampling method was explained by the fact that it was too difficult to get a full sampling frame of all the Indian students living in the Czech Republic. The participants were recruited using various approaches, such as mailing lists of universities and Indian student organizations, social media groups (Facebook, WhatsApp, LinkedIn), and personal network.

Sample Size: The study aimed to attain at least 150-200 respondents where finally received 170 respondents anonymously so that the statistical power can be attained to generate further analyses. The sample consists of students who are chosen as the reflection of the groups of different academic degrees, such as Bachelor, Master, Doctoral, and Postdoctoral, and who represent various age groups (18 to 40 years old).

Participation Requirements: 
-	Indian Nationals
-	Currently enrolled or graduated students from Czech Universities 
-	Arrived in year 2015 to 2025
Limitations of Participants:
-	Students who left the Czech Republic permanently.
-	Students enrolled in short term courses like Erasmus or exchange.
-	Never had Student visa.
2.3	Data Collection 
Survey Questionnaire: A constructed, structured and self-administered questionnaire has been developed completely anonymously and distributed through Google Forms Online. This tool consists of items that are closed-ended only and most of the items have Likert- scales to measure the relative importance of various motivational antecedents. The questionnaire has been designed in such a way that it divides the information into several dimensions:

Section A: Demographic Information
-	Age, Gender, Email address – Optional
-	Current Status – Studying, Studying and Working, Graduated and Working, Other
-	Year of Arrival in Czech Republic
-	Name of University enrolled in
-	Level of Degree enrolled in
-	Medium of Instruction (English, Czech taught, other)
 	Section B: Motivational Factors for staying Czech Republic:
Rate the Importance from Extremely Important to Not Important
-	Low tuition fees
-	Affordability in living cost
-	Scholarship Availability
-	English Taught programs
-	Global recognition of degree
Section C: Motivational Factors for staying Czech Republic:
Rate the Importance from Extremely Important to Not Important
-	Safety and Low crime rate
-	Post Study work options/rights
-	Location in Europe/Travel opportunities
-	Ease student visa
-	Presence of Indian community
Section D: Living Experience and Employment
-	Perception of Safety in the Czech Republic (Subjective answer)
-	Assessment of cost of living (Affordable, manageable but rising, too expensive)
-	Current employment status (Yes, No, Other)
-	Weekly working hours: (Under 10, 10-20, 20-30, 30-40, 40+)
-	If Income covers basic living expenses (Yes fully, Partially, No)
2.4	Data Collection Process: 
The google link has been distributed to different channels:
I.	Student associations: Distributed to Indian student community and cultural group organizations in Czech Republic like Studyin.cz
II.	Social Media Platforms: Posting the survey link to relevant WhatsApp group, Facebook group, LinkedIn communities.
III.	Printing and pasting QR copies in Dormitories and University boards.
IV.	Snowball Sampling: Encouraging participants to share the survey with peers.            
The data was gathered over a period of 5 weeks to enable adequate response rates. The response was voluntary and the respondents were guaranteed confidentiality and anonymity in the beginning.  The survey was done with informed consent.
Data Analysis Strategy
The data collected from the online survey was exported, cleaned, and analyzed using descriptive statistics via spreadsheet software. The primary aim of this research is exploratory and descriptive and to follow that,  Frequency distributions, percentages, and mean scores were calculated and visually represented through bar charts and pie charts to identify overarching trends has been used. To address the economic and demographic dimensions of the study, the analysis examined practical pull factors such as tuition costs, living expenses, employment opportunities, and scholarship availability as extrinsic motivators. Basic cross-tabulation was also utilized to associate demographic variables (such as age, gender, degree level, and admission year) with these key motivational factors, revealing how different student subgroups prioritized their practical needs.
Crucially, the analytical framework was theoretically grounded in Self-Determination Theory (SDT) to interpret the psychological drivers behind destination choice and post-graduation intentions. Survey responses were mapped directly to SDT’s core intrinsic psychological needs: Autonomy (the urge for independence and escaping domestic ambiguities), Competence (the drive for self-growth, career progression, and academic quality), and Relatedness (feeling secure, safe, and connected within the host country). By evaluating the average importance scores and categorical responses related to these psychological domains, the analysis assessed how the fulfillment of these needs—alongside current lived experiences like affordability, safety, and work rights—influenced the students' initial motivations and their subsequent choices to remain in the Czech Republic after graduation.

======================================================================================================================================================
Literature Review  
1. Theoretical Frameworks for International Student Mobility  
The phenomenon of international student mobility is complex and has been explored using a variety of theoretical perspectives and each of them has provided different perspectives on the motivations, decision-making, and consequences of studying abroad. Self-determination theory and the Push-Pull Model are two theoretical models, in particular, that are relevant in explaining the factors that determine the destination choices of students. These models offer parallel positions whereby one is focused on the psychological factors behind motivation and the other the situational forces that lead and entice student mobility. Together, they provide a general basis of the analysis of the reasons why Indian students choose the Czech Republic as a study destination..  
1. Chapter of level (_) 
Self-Determination Theory (SDT) developed by Deci and Ryan [31] is a general theoretical framework of human motivation, which has been implemented widely in various fields of activity, such as education, health, workplace, and sport. Its core is that SDT assumes that people have inherent psychological needs the satisfaction of which promotes optimal functioning, wellbeing, and intrinsic motivation. The theory outlines three fundamental needs, namely autonomy, the necessity to feel that one is in control of his or her behaviour and that it is self-perceived and self-endorsed; competence, the need to feel capable of bringing desired results and of using his or her abilities; and relatedness, the necessity to feel that he or she has a connexion with others, cares about them and is cared about, and belongs. SDT also differentiates between the different types of motivation on a continuum of amotivation, which implies the lack of intentionality, and different types of extrinsic motivation, which assume acting to achieve separable outcomes and finally intrinsic motivation, which implies engagement due to inherent contentment with the activity itself.  
Self-Determination Theory provides a sound conceptual framework in explaining the motivational mechanism that situates the choice of students to avail themselves with the opportunity of studying overseas and the choice of specific destinations in the case of international student mobility [31]. Available empirical studies which have utilised SDT in the context of international education reveal that students who choose to study abroad due to autonomous reasons i.e. an intrinsic interest in an object, personal values, and self-endorsed goals tend to be more satisfied, perform better academically and have better well-being as compared to those whose study-abroad decisions are based on controlled extrinsic reasons i.e. parental pressure or societal expectations. An integrative approach to the question of international students motivation to study abroad was investigated by Yue and colleagues who applied Expectanc-Value Theory and Self-Determination Theory simultaneously, and found out that both intrinsic motivation and satisfaction of the initial needs of a person were strong predictors of motivation to study abroad and further experience . This literature thus indicates the extreme importance of understanding not only the external factors which propel students towards certain destinations but also the internal motivational nature which can lead students to view themselves as having an autonomous choice as it can be in accordance with their true interests and values [4].  
The dimension of autonomy of Self-Determination Theory (SDT) is especially relevant to explain the destination choice of international students. Learners might experience a destination to provide more freedom of choice of courses and independent research, self-directed learning, and enforcing personal lifestyle choices, which are likely to make this destination more appealing to the learner. In the case of Indian students, who often have to struggle with complex family demands and social pressure on academic and career paths, the ability to exercise free will in a new cultural context can be an important pull factor. With a relatively flexible system of higher education and being in a tradition of European student-centred learning, the Czech Republic might therefore be attractive to students who want greater autonomy as compared to more constraining or prescriptive learning environments.  [31]
The second pillar of the Self-Determination Theory (SDT) is competence, which deals with the perceptions of students regarding the likelihood of a potential study destination to help them achieve their selves through development of abilities, academic success, and enhancement of professional talents. The students are therefore predisposed to gravitate towards the destinations that they consider to be friendly to their academic thriving, acquisition of substantive knowledge and credentials as well as development of competency that will help them in their further professional activities. Empirical research studies indicate that perceptions about the quality of learning, prestige of the school, and access to learning resources and support facilities all have a cumulative effect on the sense of competence derivation in students in a particular environment. [7],[22] Regarding Indian students who are considering the Czech Republic, such variables as the quality of academic programmes, the reputation of the Czech universities in a certain field (particularly medicine and engineering), and the availability of research opportunities can be evaluated in terms of the analytic perspective of competence development.  
The third basic need that has been established in Self-Determination Theory (SDT) is called relatedness and explains the importance of being socially connected and having the sense of belonging. International students are faced with the challenge of forming new social networks under cultural milieu that are often located miles apart and unrelated to the family and support systems that have been formed. Places that are perceived to be warm, safe and supporting development of substantive interpersonal relationships are seen as being more attractive. The availability of an existing Indian community of students, the hospitality of the local communities, international exchange opportunities, and institutional provisions of international students all help to ease the relatedness needs. The role of social integration and support networks in influencing general satisfaction and academic achievements in international students is always emphasised in empirical research studies on the subject. A study in which the intentions of participants in the Erasmus+ programme were surveyed in terms of SDT demonstrated that needs associated with relatedness, in particular the need to connect with people and have cultural experiences, served as strong motivational factors in participating in the study abroad programmes. [27].  
A few empirical studies have used Self-Determination Theory to provide an examination on the motivation of international students and their choice of destination. On the theoretical framework of SDT, King and co-researchers discussed the importance of stimulation of intrinsic motivations in studying abroad by the allure of a destination. Their empirical research, performed by working with educational travelers in Paris, proved that destination appeal mediates the relationship between the context variables and intrinsic motivation, which presupposes that the role of destinations in enhancing autonomous decision-making of students can be achieved by providing information and minimising external control [29]. This finding has a major implication on understanding how the Czech Republic would place itself to appeal to intrinsically motivated Indian students.   
A different study by Muthuswamy and his colleagues has investigated the effect of selfdetermined motivation, and the goal orientations of international students on subjective wellbeing with goal satisfaction of psychological needs as mediating variable [28]. Though the particular population of the Indian learners or learners in the Czech Republic was not the target of this research, the outcome of this research shows that in the host setting when the primary psychological needs of the students are met, their self-determined motivation is linked with the increased well-being and general satisfaction. Therefore, the policy makers and universities in Czech need not merely focus on practical factors like tuition fees and the availability of programmes but also to create settings that can enable autonomy, competency, and relatedness of international students.  
The Self-Determination Theory applied to international student mobility requires a good distinction between autonomous and controlled motivation. 
Autonomous motivation is characterised by inherent motives to study abroad because of pure enjoyment and interest as well as well-assimilated extrinsic motives, when the activity of studying abroad is among the values and the long-term goals of an individual. In comparison, the controlled motivation is brought about by an outside force or the contingent reward or the internal drive like feeling guilty or anxious that drives to act. Empirical evidence has continually shown that autonomous motivation is associated with better academic perseverance, greater performance and better psychological health. In case with Indian students, the ability to identify whether the choice to study in the Czech Republic is individual or it is caused by external factors like parental demands or limited opportunities in the native country can reveal the anticipated level of satisfaction and academic performance [4], [31].  
The criticisms about the use of Self-Determination Theory in cross-cultural contexts have preempted questions about whether the three basic psychological needs postulated by the theory are universal or cultural-specific. Empirical studies suggest that the relative prominence of autonomy, competence and relatedness can, in turn, differ between cultural milieus; collectivist societies, in particular, are observed to assign higher levels of prominence to relatedness and smaller levels of prominence to autonomy compared to individualist societies[34],[35]. Although this diversity is present, an extant body of cross-cultural theory testifies to the essential universality of these needs, at the same time acknowledging the fact that they are subject to culture-specific perturbations in their expression and satisfaction. With the Indian students, who are inscribed in a family paradigm, in which interdependence and group decision-making are often prioritised, the relationship between autonomy and relatedness takes a notably complex form. This intricacy explorations of how the notions of autonomy and relatedness experience the process of coming together with this demographic not only thought-provoking but also empirically necessary.  
Overall, the Self-Determination Theory offers a very insightful and detailed model when it comes to explaining the psychological decision-making that guides the selection of the Czech Republic as a study destination among Indian students. Exploring the perception of the Czech Republic in terms of autonomy, competence, and relatedness appeal, and differentiating among autonomous and controlled types of motivation, the researchers and practitioners are likely to get a better understanding of what is appealing to the Indian students in terms of this destination and how their experiences can be facilitated in order to meet their psychological needs and general well-being.  [34],[35]
2. Push-Pull Model In Student Mobility  
The Push Pull Model is one of the best-used frameworks of systematic study of the international migration phenomena, including the educational migration domain. Although the model was first developed in the field of migration studies, it has been modified significantly to explain the trends in international student mobility. [32] In essence, the Push-Pull Model assumes that migration choices are dictated by two groups of determinants namely, push factors which depart the country of origin and motivate migration, and pull factors which are linked to potential destination countries and attract migration.  In the context of international student mobility, the push factors usually mean the situation existing within the system of higher education and the socio-economic environment, in general, that forces students to seek academic opportunities in foreign countries, and pull factors refer to the qualities and opportunities that destination states present that make them attractive alternatives. 
The causes of push of Indian students towards pursuing higher education in foreign countries are complex and well-reported in the academic literature. The main contributed factor is the small size of the Indian higher education system regarding its large and growing population demand. The young demographic in India is also witnessing an increase in the level of aspirations regarding tertiary education, however, the quality of university placements and especially those in higher-ranking universities is well under the demand. High competition to be accepted in leading Indian universities, as witnessed by the high-ranking exams where only one in every several passes the test, drives most students to consider a study abroad.  The study conducted by Wadhwa analyses the decision-making process and destination choice of the Indian students with the home capacity limitations and highly competitive admissions having been established as the salient push factors [12].  
Another significant push factor is what is perceived to be a difference in quality between higher education institutions in India and the universities in the developed world. Despite having several global class institutions, there are still fears about outdated course work, limited research facilities, inefficient faculty to student ratios, and lack of adequate practical training, thus, encouraging students to obtain education in foreign countries, which they consider as the best. A recent report studying the migration of students in Kerala to Europe found dissatisfaction with the supposed low academic level of undergraduate curricula in Kerala as a primary factor that caused students to seek foreign education [2]. These findings are in line with more generalized accusations of quality and modernity of Indian higher education. 
Professional opportunities and career growth is another important force that drives people away. Despite the growing Indian labour market, the market is facing such challenges as a high unemployment rate with educated young people, chronic underemployment, and limited opportunities in the specific fields.  Students believe that degrees earned in a foreign country, particularly in Western universities, give them increased prestige and provide better career opportunities locally and internationally. The desire to achieve better results at work and earn more wages encourages a significant number of Indian students to invest in foreign studies, despite the high costs of such activities [2]. 
Socio-cultural forces also play the role of push factors. In other students, the drive to flee the strict social systems, to leave their families, to experience other cultures, and to open their own perspective of the world is one of the motivations towards studying abroad. Young adults who are in the transition period to adulthood can also find the prospect of living on their own, making their own decisions, and questioning their personal identity in an unfamiliar cultural environment especially attractive. Also, in case students who represent marginalised groups or whose identity is subject to discrimination due to caste, religion, or other social factors, studying abroad can be a way to escape these limitations and have a chance of a new beginning in a more egalitarian society.  [2]  
Pull factors, in turn, are the features of the destination countries that appeal to the international students. Their fluctuation in different destinations is the key to the variety of reasons why students choose one country or another. A number of pull factors in the literature and contemporary contextual analysis are found in the context of the Czech Republic. 
The leading pull factors are academic quality and institutional reputation. Tourists attract students to places where there are reputable universities, sound academic programmes in their areas of study, and where the degrees are recognised all over the world. The Czech Republic has some universities having a long history and great reputation, particularly in the field of medicine, engineering and natural sciences. An example of universities in Europe with great age and high reputation is Charles University in Prague. The fact that programmes are available in English is a decisive appeal to the Indian students as the language problem is still removed but the European experience can be gained. [7]
The Czech Republic has a strong pull factor of financial considerations. The Czech Republic has significantly lower tuition fees and cost of living when compared to the old destinations of the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. To middle-class families in India, this low cost makes Czech education an affordable alternative that can provide European qualifications at a price not as exorbitant as Western European or Anglophone countries. Studies on the determinants of study-abroad choice among Indian students have always found cost as a decisive factor, and many students and their families are making careful cost-benefit analyses in choosing a destination [13]. The Czech Republic has competitive prices that place it in a good position in this calculus. 
The location and strategic location of the Czech Republic in Europe is a major lure to potential students. Its geographical location in    the center of Europe makes it easy to travel to the neighbouring states allowing systematic travelling, in-depth study of the cultures, and growth of transnational professional networks on the continent. Especially those interested in imbibing the European cultural milieu and creating pan-European career networks are attracted to this spatial advantage. In addition, the entry of the Czech Republic into the European Union also exposes the students to EU institutions, policy frameworks and labour market structures which can subsequently increase their future job opportunities across the Union. [18], [20]  
Under the current conditions of increased security concerns, the aspects of the safety and living quality life has become a critical factor when it comes to student destination choice. Czech Republic is popularly viewed as a safe place of stay with the low crime rates, good political stability and high standard of living. The reputation of the Czech Republic regarding the safety of international students may be the determining factor of the Indian parents and students who develop concerns about their safety, in particular, in the wake of the reported cases of violence or discrimination against international students in some countries where they are foreigners. Empirical studies of the experiences of international students in Latavia, which is a neighbouring country in Central Europe and has similar features, showed that the factors of safety and the quality of life are of urgent interest to the cohorts of Indian students[30].  
The cultural determinants have influence though the complex mechanisms. The cultural distance between India and the Czech Republic can be viewed as an obstacle on the one hand, and the presence of the chance to explore a radically different culture can be viewed as a motivational tool among the students who are seeking personal development and intercultural competence. The culture, historical architecture, thriving arts culture, and European way of life could be interesting to students who could be interested in exploring the culture of the Czech Republic. In addition, the availability of a strong Indian student network in Czech cities may offer a sense of belonging and help in overcoming the transition and reducing the perceived threats of studying in a foreign country.  [6]
Another group of attraction factors are the immigration and visa policies. Countries with comparatively simple visa processes, chances of working in the country after the studies and avenues of citizenship are usually more attractive to foreign students. Although the immigration policy of the Czech Republic is not as open as the immigration policy of certain other European nations, it remains much more open than the immigration policy of the United States or the United Kingdom, especially in the current restrictive immigration environment of these two nations. The opportunity to stay in Europe after the graduation and not necessarily in the Czech Republic makes the destination even more appealing. [1],[3], [20] 
Many studies that have been conducted on international student mobility have empirically proven the push-pull model. In one study, Perez-Encinas and others studied the determinants of student mobility in European countries and found that push factors (poor opportunities in the home countries) as well as the pull factor (quality of the programmes, cost and location) played a significant role in determining the choice of destination [18]. Another study of the mobility of Indian students to chosen European destinations, in particular, Germany and France, used the concept of push and pull to explain why Indian students are becoming increasingly interested in European alternatives in spite of the long-standing dominance of the Anglophone countries. [9], [11].  
In their recent study of the non-European degree-mobile students in Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom, Zeltner and others concluded that motivational processes are presented differently in regard to the circumstantial contexts of each country of origin, with the domestic labour market and the higher education system being the major arenas of context within which motivations are generated [1] This empiric study highlights the fact that there are no uniform push factors among all student groups but rather that they are influenced by certain instances of national and regional factors in the home countries. Push factors can vary depending on the home state, socio-economic status, and major of study in the case of Indian students.  
As much as the Push-Pull Model has been used, it has a significant drawback. It has been argued that it is an over simplistic binary construct that is not sufficient in explaining the complexity and dynamism of migration decision making. The decisions made by students are not only the reaction to push and pull factors, but it is the active agency, the strategic approach, and the constant negotiation of various determinants. Furthermore, the model tends to place a lot of emphasis on the initial destination choice, and does not necessarily consider the time changes in the perceptions and motivations, or how students visit various destinations over the course of their studies. As a result, other scholars have developed more refined models that incorporate decision-making steps, the intermediary (including educational agency) and the impact of social network and information flow. [36], [37]
Irrespective of such inevitable limitations, the Push-Pull Model remains a useful rule of thumb in organising and analysing the countless factors that drive international student mobility. A more analytic framework is provided when combined with Self-Determination Theory, which provides the information on the psychological motivational drive and needs underlying the response of students to the push and pull forces. To this end, this paper capitalises on the intersection of these two theoretical constructs to discuss the external environmental factors (push and pull factors) as well as the internal psychological forces (autonomy, competence, relatedness, and motivational quality) that influence the choice of Indian students to choose Czech Republic as their study destination. [4], [31] 
2. Factors Influencing Study Abroad Destination Choice   
The choice in favour of studying abroad and the choice of a specific country of study depends on a complex of factors that may be grouped into the academic, economic, cultural-social and psychological aspects. Such variables neither work alone, but they interrelate in complex ways, and each of them presupposes various degrees of salience of individual students based on their particular circumstances, priorities, and values. A thorough explanation of these variables and their relative significance is necessary to explain the choice of the Indian students to the Czech Republic, and to come up with measures that can help make the destination more appealing and the support systems more powerful. [7], [13], [18] 
1. Academic Factors  
The academic factors are always present in the literature as one of the most salient aspects of international students destination choice. These aspects include the standard of education, access to and applicability of degree courses, reputation of the institution, research facilities and the foreign acceptability of degrees. To students who put so much time, money, and effort in international education, academic qualifications and learning experiences that they expect to attain are the most important considerations[22].  
Curriculum rigour, pedagogical practises, learning materials, faculty credentials, student/faculty ratios, and the general standards of the academic work are multidimensional constructs that make up the quality of education. Students want to visit places where they believe they will get high quality of teaching which will provide them with knowledge, skills and competencies that are worth being in the global labour market. Gurucharan et al. (2019) used the Fuzzy Analytical 
Hierarchical Process to prioritise the determinants of international education destination among Indian students and listed the aspects of academic factors as one of the highest priorities, especially quality and reputation of educational institutions [7]. This observation is consistent with the general findings of other studies that have examined the mobility of international students and which have established that the perceived educational quality is one of the major attractors. [22] 
Availability of given academic programmes is another critical factor in selection of destinations to study. They are bound to be attracted to the areas that can provide them with the curricula that will support their academic activities and career goals. Medicine, engineering, business administration, computer science and natural sciences are some of the fields that are very popular among the Indian students especially. Czech Republic has developed skills in some of these areas, with the medical schools specially appealing to Indian students. Czech medical schools also offer English-taught MD programmes which are internationally recognised and allow licensure in a variety of jurisdictions. The contrast between such offerings with relatively lower tuition rates in comparison with Western medical training makes the Czech Republic a great option of future doctors who were born in India. [10], [16], [14] 
The institutional standing has a strong impact on the preferences of the destinations. Students and their families use university rankings, accreditation status and historical prestige to judge prospective hosts. In spite of the fact that Czech universities do not play as high profile in the international ranking as those in the United States or the United Kingdom, several Czech universities have strong regional reputations and well-established histories. Charles University, Czech Technical University, Masaryk University among others are recognised to make contributions to academics and therefore attract international enrolment. To Indian scholars, the reputation of the particular programme or department can be considered more significant than the overall rankings of universities particularly in specialised areas. [7], [22]
Academic credentials are an important consideration which guarantee international recognition and mobility of the same. Students want to be sure that their qualifications will be recognised and that it will be appreciated not only in the host country but also in their home country and other jurisdictions where the students may seek employment. Students of the Czech Republic (and their degrees, especially those of reputable universities) are usually recognised throughout the European Union by the Bologna Process and the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System. The validation of the Czech degree by the Indian authorities, both within and outside the country is a critical consideration to the Indian students. Empirical research on the preferences of Indian students towards studying abroad has shown that concerns over degree recognition and accreditation have a great impact on destination choice with the students preferring those places whose degrees are well established and generally recognised. [10].  
The ability to use faculty knowledge and available research opportunities is of utmost importance to graduate students and those who are enrolled in research-based programmes. Proximity to superior researchers, state of the art laboratories and the likelihood of contributing to state of the art studies are very strong lures. The Czech universities in the research field show strong capacities in the spectrum of the research field, and the active participation of the country in European research networks and funding mechanisms, including Horizon Europe, gives Czech students a chance to be involved in the international joint research projects. To Indian students who have chosen the research career, these opportunities are even more alluring, especially when considered in take with the relatively cheaper cost of living, as compared to Western Europe [16].  
Language of instruction is a notable academic predictor of choice of destination in the study abroad. In the case of Indian learners, whose primary or secondary schooling is mostly conducted in English, the accessibility is critically determined by the provision of English-taught curricula. The Czech Republic has adjusted to the international demand through increasing the number of English based programmes at the master’s and doctorate levels in a variety of fields. Such development makes the Czech institutions more appropriate to Indian students who do not understand Czech. However, the differences in calibre and access to English-taught courses by different universities and disciplines might influence enrolment choices [13], [18].  
There is also influence of pedagogical methodologies. Students are attracted to those destinations which teaching methods are in line with their epistemic preferences and professional growth needs. Czech universities, which are a typical example of European institutions of higher learning, tend to anticipate critical inquiry, independent research and learner-based approaches to education, unlike the examination-based modalities of some Indian contexts. Such methodological deviations can be of special interest to the students who focus on the development of autonomy and competence as these concepts are conceptualised in the Self Determination Theory[4], [31] .  
The use of academic determinants in the selection of study-abroad is always emphasised by empirical literature. The study by Singh and colleagues determined that academic reputation and quality of the programmes are the most important in destination preferences of Indian business school students. Similarly, the study of motivational inclinations of international students, which occurs within the context of Expectancy Theory and Self-Determination Theory, found that academic expectations and value of educational outcomes is a significantly strong predictor of the intentions of study-abroad. The findings support the idea that, despite the power of financial, cultural, and other auxiliary factors, academic factors are critical in the decision process of most students [13], [4].  
Within the framework of the Czech Republic, to increase academic appeal, it is required to not only maintain but also to improve the level of instruction and successfully transfer this excellence to the potential Indian students. Specific outreach, reinforcement of curricular advantages, academic scholarship, research opportunities, graduate paths, and international certifications can bring Czech universities to the academic credibility level as an alternative. 
Furthermore, official partnerships with Indian organisations, participation in educational fairs in India as well as communication with academic consultants can be used to increase the knowledge about Czech higher-education opportunities among Indian students and their circles[16].  
 
2. Financial Factors  
One of the most salient as well as often decisive factors affecting the choice of destination by international students is the financial factor. The external cost of studying overseas is a significant investment to both the students and their families which includes the cost of tuition fees, cost of living, cost of travelling, cost of health insurance fees as well as other cost bones. To many Indian families, especially those in the middle-class bracket it is a financial strain, which involves a lot of careful budgeting, restrained savings building, and even borrowing of loan facilities to send one of their children abroad to pursue higher education. Thus, the relative price of a host country in comparison to the perceived standard and value of the educational product is a decisive factor of the student selection[7], [15], [16]. 
There is a lot of variation in tuition fees depending on the destination and institutions. Conventional places like the United States and the United Kingdom are characterised by high tuition fees particularly among international scholars who are supposed to pay higher fees compared to their native colleagues. Conversely, several European jurisdictions such as Czech Republic offer relatively low-priced tuition models, most especially state universities. The tuition fees of English-taught programmes in the Czech Republic are relatively cheap when compared to those that exist in the Western European region and are significantly lower in comparison with the Anglophone destinations[13]. To give an example, annual enrolment fees at English-taught programmes in Czech state universities are generally between EUR2,000 to EUR15,000, depending on the course and the level of study, unlike in the United Kingdom (between EUR15,000 and EUR30,000) and in the United States (between USD20,000 and USD50,000) [7]. This high-cost difference makes the Czech Republic a good alternative to the Indian students who want to pursue education in Europe at affordable cost. 
Another key financial factor is the cost of living. This group includes housing, food, transportation, energy and personal spending. The Czech nation, specifically, in the places beyond Prague, has a comparably low cost of living when compared to the Western European countries. Students can afford affordable housing and other day-to-day costs on food and transportation are moderate. Comparative research of student experiences among the European destinations has recorded that the Central and Eastern European countries tend to offer cheaper living costs, which forms a strong pull factor among international students who have their origin in the developing countries.[18] The promise of living a comfortable life at a small budget, as Indian students would do, and getting quality education in the Czech Republic is a significant positive attribute of the country to them.[3][8] 
The allowance of scholarships, grants, and other financial aid has the potential to have a significant impact on destination choice due to the ability to reduce the fiscal load. Although the Czech Republic does not offer international students such comprehensive scholarship programmes as in other countries, there are opportunities offered through Czech government scholarship schemes, institutional awards and European Union programmes. Moreover, some of the Indian students can become the beneficiaries of the scholarships based on Indian government programs or since the non-governmental funds. The apparentness and availability of these financial support options can have an impact on the perceived appeal of the Czech Republic. It has been established in previous studies that financial aid is a major destination determinant, especially amongst middle- and low-income-students. [13].  
All part-time work opportunities in the time of academic study are another cost factor of the would-be international students. The ability to work on a part-time basis can help to reduce living expenses, collect work experience as a professional, and develop transferable skills[19]. In the Czech Republic, foreign scholars have the right to work part-time as long as they are studying; this depends on the statutory restrictions about the amount of time that they are allowed to work per week and the type of work. The concentration of part-time jobs, current wage levels, and the availability of local labour market all informed students with respect to the financial choices. To Indian students, a viable opportunity to earn income at the same time increases the costefficiency of a selected destination[20]. 
The employment opportunities after graduation and the corresponding payback is another more distant, yet not less important, financial aspect. Families and students determine the worth of the capital invested in international education in terms of corresponding career paths and income. Destinations that allow them easy career access, either in the host country or internationally speaking, and which provide graduates with high rates of remuneration are inherently more appealing in a financial context. Membership in European Union provides the Czech Republic with a lifetime prospect of having graduates enter the wider European labour market; however, the language barriers and work permit legislation can act against non-EU citizens. [30]The findings of empirical research on the reasons and then limits of Indian students to study in foreign countries proves that the expectant career advantages and estimated returns on investment are crucial factors defining destinations [19] [30]. 
The final worth of any educational undertaking depends on the connexon between cost and perceived quality, and it provides the general value proposition. Stakeholders conduct implicit or explicit cost -benefit analyses on a regular basis, weighed by the cumulative monetary expenditures against projected academic, professional, and personal rewards [16]. The competitive edge that the Czech Republic has is that it provides a good value proposition, namely European education, which has gained the respect of the whole world, but at a fraction of the price that the usual destinations command. This niche is especially strong in the middle-class Indian families that are trying to afford their children international education and face serious financial limitations that make more expensive options unsustainable [15]. 
Empirical research always emphasises the critical importance of financial aspects in destination choice of higher education. According to a Structural Equation Modelling analysis using global student mobility initiatives in Indian institutions of higher learning, fiscal variables, that is, cost and accessibility of financial aid, played a key role in determining mobility decisions among students [16]. In conducting focused studies on the desires of Indian students towards studying abroad, the tuition fees and cost of living were found to be among the greatest factors, often second only to academic standards [7], [13]. Comparative studies of Indian student mobility to the European countries also revealed that cost-effectiveness was the factor that formed the main force behind the increasing trend towards European destinations as the alternative to the more costly Anglophone countries [9], [11]. 
The financial aspect is something that cannot be detached to a wider range of influences. As an example, the cost-effectiveness of a host nation can serve as a means of access to students with a wide range of socio-economic backgrounds and this in turn can bring more diversity and inclusion to the academic world [5]. Furthermore, financial stress may negatively influence academic achievement, personal health, and general satisfaction, making affordability a decisive variable, which goes beyond accessibility to academic performance and experiences quality [28]. 
The Czech Republic is indispensable in terms of the fiscal benefits of the country, which is vital in the marketing and recruitment of the country. Clearing information about tuition fees, cost of living, availability of scholarships, and part-time working environments can enable the potential Indian students and their families to make informed choices. Offering detailed financial planning software, cost-calculation applications, and the testimonies of already existing Indian students who successfully manage the financial management in the Czech Republic can only enhance the destination appeal even more. Therefore, the creation of scholarship programmes that are directly focused on Indian students would likely cement the competitive position of the Czech Republic and would draw extremely successful scholars who may seek more expensive options[10] .  
3. Cultural and Social Factors  
The cultural milieu, social integration processes, language dynamics, perceptions of the safety, patterns of the lifestyle and the presence of support networks in the host country are cultural and social variables. Such variables play a significant role in the choice of the destination as well as future experiences, level of satisfaction, and academic performance of students at the destination. To international researchers, moving to a new country will require the need to negotiate new cultural standards, form new social relationships and adapt to different lifestyle norms, which are both enriching and at the same time, a source of difficulty.[5] 
The extent of cultural similarity or dissimilarity between the two home and host countries acts as a multiplexed determinant. Cultural congruence may be used to enhance the adaptation and reduce the culture shock thereby making culturally similar destinations more desirable[6]. On the other hand, the cultural difference can appeal to students who want to experience something new, self-grow, and internally master the practise of cross-cultural competence. The Czech Republic is a very different place in the circumstances of Indian scholars, where European customs, value systems, and social conventions are strongly prominently different when compared to India. The cultural difference thus created can be a challenge as well as an incentive based on the motivation and ability to adjust to it[30]. 
The study of the experience of international students proves that cultural adjustment is a significant issue that affects performance and academic success, as well as psychological wellbeing and general satisfaction. [6] Formal research studies on intercultural transitions in postsecondary education have focused on both the processes of adjustment and adapting to cultural differences, establishing that students who successfully go through the transition and develop intercultural competence experience less negative experiences more often [6]. Using the example of Indian students studying in the Czech Republic, the facilitative factors can include organised orientation programmes, specific intercultural training, and cultural exchange experience, which would lead to the increased attractiveness of the country and to the academic success of students.[6] 
Language is one of the defining cultural and functional determinants. Even though the Czech higher education sector has a fairly significant number of English-taught programmes, the Czech language continues to dominate in terms of the everyday communication. The low level of English speaking among the local population beyond the big cities is also an obstacle among the international students as it influences their performance concerning daily task execution, utilisation of services, interaction with locals and complete assimilation of the Czech society. On the other hand, linguistic diversity can be considered as a valuable resource by students that view language acquisition as a chance to improve personally [2], [30]. There have been empirical studies that have found that language barrier is a usual challenge when it comes to Indian students in European destinations, but students tend to adapt to this issue over time and can even consider language acquisition a beneficial skill. 
One of the most important issues of international students and their family members is safety and security. Conceptions about security include physical security which includes low rates of crime and lack of violent and aggressive acts, political stability and guard against discrimination or harassment. The Czech Republic is generally considered as a safe country with the low level of crime and the stable political situation in the country, thus presenting a great attraction to the potential newcomers. To the Indian parents making decisions about their children in terms of overseas studies, the question of safety often comes into the limelight as a major concern. Cases of hostility, bigotry, or intimidation against international students in some nations has contributed to safety concern and changing the choice of destinations. The results have shown that the opinions of safety have a significant impact on the destination choice, which pushes students and families to actively search the information about the crime rates, political situation, and the attitude toward foreign students [18]. 
The presence of an Indian diaspora or a student body in a host nation is a relevant social variable. The existing groups of Indians also provide social support, cultural understanding, exchange of information, and networking opportunities to new comers. These communities may help in easy transitions, reduce sense of isolation, and offer practical support in relation to accommodation, orientation and cultural adjustment. The large population of Indian students that is increasingly taking shape in the Czech Republic, especially in the metropolis cities like Prague and Brno, acts as a desirable pull factor to the other successful students. Social network and student mobility studies have proved that co-national communities play a very important role in destination choice and facilitating the accommodation process. [1]  
Students need to feel related and belong to the surrounding community, which social integration and the friendliness of the local population can bring (in SDT terms). The places that are considered as cordial and receptive to international students are more desirable. It is important to students to have a chance to connect with local ones, make cross-cultural friends and be accepted in their host countries. Studies have been done on the satisfaction of international students and it is always observed that social integration is a major factor of overall satisfaction and well-being [23]. In the case of the Czech Republic, making campus life more inclusive, facilitating intercultural interaction, and turning to local students to encourage their interaction with international ones will help the country improve socialization and the general experience of the students.  
The quality of life has different elements such as climate, urban setting, recreational facilities, healthcare, transport, and the general way of life. Czech Republic has the high quality of life and the well-developed infrastructure, public transportation, available healthcare, and cultural and recreational opportunities. Prague is especially the city of historical beauty, of colorful culture, of cosmopolitan ambiance. In the case of students, the factors of quality-of-life lead to the overall satisfaction and well-being, and, thus, destinations with high quality of life are more appealing. Student mobility studies have revealed that lifestyle issues are important during destination selection and satisfaction although in some cases secondary to academic and monetary factors [29].  
Other social and cultural factors that are relevant are geographic location and travel opportunities. The central European location of Czech Republic allows easy access to other European states thus students are able to travel, learn about other people and join pan-European networks[18] . To the Indian students, the possibility of visiting several European countries in the course of study is a bonus that becomes value-adding to the learning process. It is a pull factor, as this geographic advantage is more European destinations compared to the geographically more isolated alternatives [20] .  
The status of studying in Europe, cultural capital, may also affect destination choice. To a number of Indian students and parents, studying in Europe undertakings come with social status and cultural capital that helps in boosting the profile of the student and family prestige. The fact that it is related to European culture, history, and intellectual traditions can be attractive, despite the fact that the country (the Czech Republic) in question may not be as recognizable as more ancient places of sightseeing[20]. This is the symbolic aspect of destination choice that is hard to measure yet it does play an important role in determining tastes and decisions. 
 The empirical research has given much importance to the factors of culture and social influence in determining the mobility of international students. An examination of the reasons and limitations of Indian students moving to foreign countries has also shown that the cultural variables including the quest to achieve cultural exposure and the cultural issues that concern cultural adaptation played a major role in determining the destination choice [19]. A study of the experiences of international students in Latvia, a Central European destination with some similarities to the Czech Republic, has identified cultural factors and the overall appeal of the region as the major driving force behind the Indian students [30]. Another research article on student Kerala to European migration also highlighted the significance of socio-economic status and cultural assimilation in defining the experiences and satisfaction rate of students [2].  
The interaction between the cultural determinants and the Self-Determination Theory (SDT) seems to be extremely salient. The settings, which encourage autonomy, create access to competence development, and support relatedness, will probably become more desirable and supportive to positive learning results[34]. To Indian students who have to manage the contradictions between traditional values emphasising the interdependence of the family and the values of the West that are often associated with individualism, Czech environment, with its blend of European and Central-European traditions, could offer a unique place of identity formation and personal growth [35].   
In the Czech Republic, the multifaceted approach is required to deal with cultural and social determinants. The acculturation and integration can be facilitated by augmenting support mechanisms that include orientation programmes, language training, cultural integration programmes and psychosocial counselling of international scholars [5]. The possibility of facilitating intercultural interactions will help bridge the cultural differences and build the platforms where students of Indian and Czech heritage will be able to exchange their insights [6]. To attract and retain international talent the campus and the areas near the campus should be inclusive, non-discriminatory, and conducive. In addition, its attractiveness due to the cultural richness, safety, quality of life, and the presence of a supportive Indian student community can be enhanced through effective communication of such factors, which will increase the prospects of attracting new enrolments to the country [30] .  
4. Psychological Factors  
The psychological reasons, especially those in terms of Self-Determination Theory, can provide a more detailed explanation of the motivational elements behind the destination preferences of international students. Although academic, financial, and cultural determinants are the external or contextual aspect of such decisions, psychological determinants are related to inner motivations, needs, values, and self-perceptions of students. These psychological dimensions are crucial in understanding why not only what appeals to students in certain destinations at all, but also why it has an effect and how it is connected to the basic psychological needs of students and their general well-being [31]. 
As has been explained in Section 3.1.1, Self-Determination Theory recognises three fundamental psychological needs, namely, autonomy, competence, and relatedness, without which human beings cannot perform optimally and essentially. These needs in the international student mobility context are articulated in particular ways that affect destination choice and subsequent experiences [31].   
The conceptualization of autonomy is that a person has a need to feel that his or her behaviour is volitional, self-endorsed, to act in conformity to her or his true interests and values, and not to yield to external pressures or internal compulsions. In the case of international students, the autonomy works at various levels. To begin with, the act to study abroad can on its own be an autonomous act which is a decision to work towards the realisation of educational and life objectives on ones own. However, the degree of autonomy in such a choice differs; some students make their choices based on their own interest and reflection, and other students are under the pressure of the family demands, the socialisation or are bound by their limited choices at home (controlled motivation)[31].   
Second, the choice of a location could be a way of expressing autonomy. Students might be attracted to places that seem to be more liberal in granting students more choice of courses, independent research, making choices about their lifestyles, and self-direction. An example would be the Czech Republic which boasts of European traditions of education that focus on student-centered learning and academic freedom thus attracting students who want independence in their academic lives. Empirical research points to the fact that, students with autonomously driven decisions to study abroad report more positive experiences and outcomes. [4], [29].  
Third, the sense of autonomy in the host country, the degree to which students believe that they have the opportunity to make individual choices, pursue their own interests, and have a life per their principles, has a significant impact on satisfaction and well-being. In a case of Indian students, possibly being born in a family where the parental influence on the formation of his/her educational and life choices is really strong, studying abroad may be seen as a chance to feel freer and become more independent. However, the process of transition can also be a problematic one, where students will have to resolve the conflict between agency and automaticity and preservation of family and cultural relationships [31]. 
The conceptualization of competence is based on the fact that people must understand themselves as effective agents who can produce desired results and use their capacities as per their inherent abilities. In a school context, competence is operationalized by defining competence in terms of how the students perceive that they are effective in completing academic tasks, developing skill sets as well as achieving their learning goals [4]. 
Study destination is subject to evaluative judgments by students which would determine how far a particular place would enable them to acquire competence. Such variables as perceived educational quality, access of resources and institutional support, appropriateness of the academic rigor, and opportunities of skill-enhancement contribute to competence perceptions together. With the Czech Republic in mind, there might be competence-related questions among the Indian students: To what degree can I perform academically in such a setting? How relevant will the education that I will get be in the job market? To what extent am I able to surmount the language barrier and be able to adjust to different teaching methods? Do I have sufficient resources and support systems that will make me successful? Places which are regarded to support competence development by way of providing high-quality education, adequate support facilities and concrete opportunity to succeed are relatively more attractive [31],[4],[1]. 
Empirical studies have also showed that perception of competence, and experiential competence factors have a tremendous impact on intrinsic motivation, persistence, and psychological wellbeing among students. The students that feel capable of the academic environment will be better placed to have greater levels of intrinsic motivation, engagement, and satisfaction, which are observed in the literature [4]. Conversely, persons that face academic difficulties or suffer feelings of overwhelmed are conditioned to lose motivation and general well-being. In the frame of the Czech Republic, the Indian students require the multifaceted support, including academic advising, instructional tutoring, and linguistic assistance, as well as clear explanation of expectations, in order to achieve the competence-related needs and guarantee academic success. 
Relatedness refers to the psychological need to stay related to other people, to share care and to find a sense of belonging. The relatedness salience is increased among international students who leave behind the existing social networks and move to a new context. The ability to have valuable relations with fellow students, with the faculty, and the host nation, along with the sense of acceptance and being recognised in the new country has an overwhelming impact on the well being and satisfaction of the students[1]. 
The perceptions that a destination will provide relatedness affect destination choice. Relatedness perceptions are caused by factors like the existence of a co-national group, the welcoming and openness of the local populations as well as the opportunities to socialise and exchange cultures, and the institutional reinforcement of social integration. To Indian students, the information that there is an established Indian student body in the Czech Republic would help to reassure them that they will manage to establish relationships and social support. Moreover, the image of the Czech society as an open and accepting one can posses an added benefit of making the destination attractive[1].   
The role of social connexions and support networks has been recognised as essential in the experience of international students, as the research on the topic proves. A research study on intercultural transition established that the students who have successfully established social networks and have a sense of belonging in their host country have more positive outcomes of adaptation [6]. On the other hand, social isolation and loneliness are some of the most frequently reported problems of international students and have been linked to worse mental health and academic performance. [6] [30] 
The interactions between autonomy and competence and relatedness represent a key factor in the self-determination theory (SDT). SDT argues that these three psychological needs are an interdependent system and not discrete elements and are involved in a synergistic process of regulation[31]. I would mention, as an illustration, that the experience of competence can augment the feeling of autonomy by creating the belief in the ability to make individual decisions, and a feeling of relatedness can provide a safe psychological foundation that facilitates the quest of autonomy and participation in challenges that improve competence. Under the particular situation of Indian students studying at the establishments of the Czech Republic, an educational setting that meets all three demands, according to which it offers some degree of autonomy in the learning process, provides resources to develop competence, and opens opportunities to meaningful social interactions, the optimal motivation, maintained interest, and general wellbeing are significantly increased[34]. 
In addition to the three fundamental psychological needs established within the framework of Self-Determination Theory, the fact that the theory splits motivation into two dimensions, intrinsic and extrinsic, gives it a potentially useful framework through which destination selection can be considered. Intrinsic motivation is involvement in an activity because it is a pleasure or a satisfaction, e.g. when one studies abroad because of real academic interest or curiosity or interest in cross-cultural experience/exposure or an interest in learning[31]. On the other hand, extrinsic motivation refers to an engagement which is influenced by external responses such as studying abroad to obtain a fancy degree or even to please parents or even to enhance a career opportunity. Self-Determination Theory also provides further complexity of extrinsic motivation by pointing to a continuum of internalisation degrees, ranging between an exterior regulation, in which behaviours are done in reaction to external incentives or sanctions, and an integrated regulation, in which behaviours are entirely internalised in regard to a person and his/her principles and identity[34]. 
It has been empirically demonstrated that intrinsic motivation and highly internalised extrinsic motivation have a positive relationship with various positive outcomes including persistence, academic performance, creativity, and overall wellbeing compared to relatively moderately regulated extrinsic motivation [4]. Applying the concept to the case of Indian students, a possible analysis of whether the choice of the Czech Republic as a study-abroad location is based on any autonomous factors (i.e., whether it is based on personal interests and values), or an extrinsic, controlled one (e.g., external pressures or limited options), can provide valuable information about future satisfaction and success of the latter. 
Significant findings have been reported by empirical studies which have used Self-Determination Theory (SDT) as an approach to international student mobility adding weight to the importance of psychological factors. Yue and others proved that intrinsic motivation and the graduation of the basic psychological needs are important predictors of the intentions of international students to study abroad and their experience in general. King and associates[29] discovered that destination popularity increases intrinsic motivation to study abroad, hence it can be suggested that destinations can be marketed to appeal to the autonomous motivation of the students. In the SDT framework, research of Erasmus+ participants has identified that needs of autonomy, competence, and relatedness all apply to the decision of students to participate in study-abroad programmes[4],[27].  
In the case of Indian students who have chosen the Czech Republic as a place of study, particular psychological processes are expressed in a complex way. The intrinsic motivation of the students, who are interested in the European culture, specific academic programmes or their own development, would be attracted to the specific culture and educational opportunities offered by the Czech Republic[1]. The aspiration to live independently in new surroundings, as well as make their personal choices, attracts those who want to be independent. Students that are concerned about developing competences are pressured by the quality of education and a chance to receive recognised European qualifications [2]. People experiencing high relatedness needs feel reassured by the existence of an Indian student population, as well as the acknowledgment of the Czech society as a safe and welcoming location. 
Knowledge of these psychological determinants is more practical to recruitment and support tactics. The marketing campaigns[24] which predict how studying in the Czech Republic can fulfil the needs of autonomy (freedom to explore, independent living), competence (highstandard education, acquisition of skills and career preparation), and associatedness (supportive community, networking opportunities) can find a firmer appeal with potential students compared to the pure informational or transactional communication. In addition, the support services and campus environments that are intentionally designed to support these three needs can improve the experiences and outcomes of students and result in a higher level of satisfaction, success, and positive word-of-mouth attracting future enrolments. 
Altogether, psychological factors, especially those that are theorised in the framework of the Self-Determination Theory, offer an important analytical tool to decompose the underlying reasons of Indian students choosing the Czech Republic as a study destination [34],[35]. By paying attention to the way the Czech Republic is viewed regarding its ability to uphold autonomy, competence, and relatedness and by understanding the quality of motivation (intrinsic or extrinsic, autonomous or controlled) among students, researchers, and practitioners will be able to learn more about destination choice and develop more efficient policies to attract and accommodate Indian students[4].  
3. Indian Students in International Higher Education  
India has become one of the most important source countries of international students in the world with hundreds of thousands of Indian nationals enrolling into institutions of higher learning in other countries every year [33]. This section provides a critical assessment of the trends and the pattern of Indian student mobility, the motivation factors driving Indian students into foreign education and the obstacles they face in the foreign academic set ups [2]. The subtle understanding of the contextual peculiarities of the Indian student mobility is what is required to divide the factors that predetermine both the reasons and the methods by which the Indian students choose the very specific destinations, and the Czech Republic is not an exception [20].  
1. Trends and Patterns of Indian Student Mobility  
The movement of Indian students has been growing at an unprecedented pace during the past twenty years and has become the result of a combination of demographic, economic and educational factors[2]. India has the highest number of youth population in the world with millions of learners finishing their secondary schooling every year seeking tertiary education opportunities [33]. However, the Indian ability of the higher education system, though large in absolute sense, is not sufficient to satisfy this vast demand of high quality education. It is this incessant lack of supply and demand coupled with rising ambitions and increasing accessibility of education by the growing middle classes of India, which has led to the motivating wave of students to foreign universities [19].   
Empirical data based on the ICEF Monitor and various national repositories show that the count of Indian students in foreign countries has increased since the beginning of the 2000s by approximately 200,000 up to the present days with over 750,000 students being the second top source of international students in the world, only after China. [33]Although the COVID-19 pandemic had caused a momentary halt in such flows of movement, the restoration of normalcy has been strong, and it is expected to keep growing in the coming annum.   
The Indian students have traditionally shown high tendencies towards the Anglophone destinations, and this includes the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia. These countries have been receiving most of the Indian international scholars, because of the status of their universities, the dominance of the English medium of instruction, the strong networks of the Indian diaspora, as well as the feeling of better career opportunities[20]. The US is the most predominant destination as it accepts large populations of Indian students especially in the STEM fields at graduate level. The United Kingdom is also a large hub particularly of the master programmes. In Canada and Australia, the growth of Indian enrolments has been faster in the recent past due to fairly permissive immigration policies and procurement of permanent residency.  
Nonetheless, the last years have been characterized by a significant diversification of preferences in destination among Indian students. There are several factors which are intertwined that have brought about this shift. First, the rising of the cost and to a greater extent tightening of immigration policies at the old destinations especially the United States and the United Kingdom have made students to consider other mobility opportunities [33]. Secondly, the increased knowledge about learning opportunities in non-traditional destinations, through digital information sources and professionalism of the educational consultant, has widened the scope of admissible options by prospective students [2]. Third, the internationalization policies embraced by universities in other countries such as active recruitment campaigns towards India have increased the visibility and appeal of the alternative destinations [7]. Fourth, geopolitical factors, including fear of safety and discrimination and unpredictability of visa policies in some traditional destinations, have also influenced the preferences of students and moderated them. 
This diversification has been a blessing to European countries. Germany, France, the 
Netherlands, and even Central European and Eastern European nations such as Czech Republic, 
Poland, Hungary, etc, have been receiving more and more Indian students. A study conducted by Mukherjee and others focused on the movement of Indian students to European countries of choice namely Germany and France and reported the drivers behind this trend [9], [11]. This paper established that these countries were becoming more and more appealing to Indian students due to the combination of good education, cheaper rates than the Anglophone destinations, and opportunities within the European Union.  
The Czech Republic is an emerging destination. Although it is still not drawing Indian student numbers equivalent to Germany or UK, in the last 10 years, the number of Indian students enrolling in Czech universities has been steadily increasing [2]. This has been most evident in certain areas like medicine whereby the Czech medical schools have aggressively taken in Indian students, and in engineering and business courses. The existence of an existing community of Indian students in such cities as Prague and Brno has resulted in creating the network effects that lead to the further growth [38]. 
The trends of Indian student migration depend on the sphere of study, the level of study and socio-economic status. Indian students studying in foreign countries at the undergraduate level are often concentrated in the engineering, Computer science and Business programmes. Graduate level mobility in contrast is more heterogeneous in its distribution of disciplines with an intense representation in STEM, business administration, the social sciences, and humanities [2]                . Medicine is a unique scenario where a good percentage of Indian students are studying medical degrees abroad and particularly in countries where the admission standards are relatively lower and the cost of tuition is lower compared to India. Indicatively, the Czech Republic has been identified to be a specifically successful place to recruit Indian medical students [10]. 
Academic level patterns show that the greatest percentage of Indian international students is enrolled in master programmes, bachelors and then doctoral programmes. One-year master programmes that are common in the United Kingdom have become especially popular. On the other hand, the Czech master programmes (normally two years long) are aligned with the European standards and allow students a longer educational period [7]. 
In a socio-economic dimension, most of the Indian international students belong to middle and upper-middle-income families that have the financial resources to finance foreign education. However, recent developments are characterised by a growing amount of heterogeneity, as students in smaller urban centres and low-income families also study abroad, often through scholarship programmes or by choosing less expensive destinations. Empirical studies on migration of middle-class Indian students have highlighted the contribution of aspirations, family strategies and agents of intermediary recruitment in shaping the mobility pattern. [14].  
The trends in the gender structure of Indian student mobility have been changing over the last several decades, as there is a clearly observable key change in the ratio of female subjects getting involved in studying abroad; however, the majority of the representatives remain male. Traditionally, the culture setting, the parental fears related to the safety, and the established gender role patterns have restricted the freedom of movement of a woman [20]. The fact that these barriers are gradually on the decline can be seen through evolving social perceptions, and the recorded success of female scholars in other countries to show the real potential of such ventures and their viability and feasibility in a logistically sound manner [29]. 
There is also geospatial difference that has an impressive effect on India. The states with high levels of economic development, higher educational levels, and increased exposure to international opportunities are the most significant contributors of students in foreign academic programmes. Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Kerala become crucial source states. The empirical research concerning the migration of the Kerala students to Europe has traced the select dynamics that pertain to this regional flux, including the contribution of the dissatisfaction with the quality of education in the home country, and the facilitation of the process that is provided by the already existing migration networks. [2].  
The impact of the intermediaries, especially the educational consultants and recruitment agents, has a significant effect on the trend of Indian student mobility. A large number of the Indian students rely on these consultants to guide them on the complex procedures of university selection, application preparation, visa application, and logistics. These intermediaries hold significant influence on destination preferences thus guiding the student flows on the destinations to particular countries or institutions due to their affiliations and commissioning structures, as well as area of specialisation. Studies have also established significant differences in quality of consultancy services and moral principles of services offered by educational consultancies, which means that some companies may offer worthwhile consultancy, whereas others perform activities leading to misguidance. [12].  
Such trends and patterns would be critical in putting into perspective the decisions of Indian students in relation to the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is placed as an alternative to the traditional Anglophone alternatives and other European alternatives, which can provide a unique blend of quality, cost, location in Europe and particular programme advantages. Its expansion as an Indian student destination indicates more general diversification and hunting of value in overseas education[12].  
2. Motivations and Challenges Faced by Indian Students Abroad  
The incentives leading to the pursuit of higher education among the Indian students in foreign countries are complex and multi-faceted and include a combination of push factors in India and pull factors in the countries of immigration, as well as individual desires and family planning approaches[19]. An excellent grasp of these motivation forces will provide knowledge of the expectations held by the Indian students in regard to international education and the way that the destinations like Czech Republic can meet the requirements [4].  
Academic and Educational Motivations  
The main reason why the Indian students opt to study overseas is the search of better standard of learning that is perceived to be better or unique compared to education offered in India. Even though higher education in India is a large system, there are concerns about the quality of academic work, outdated curriculums, lack of infrastructure and limited research prospects in many institutions and this is driving students to overseas options. The causes of Indian international students not joining master programmes in their native country were examined in an empirical study by Chanda et al. and the analysis revealed that perceived loss in quality, limited specialisation, and the research facilities were critical inhibitory factors [15]. The desire to learn under outstanding talents, use state of the art facilities, engage in innovative research and an education both relevant around the globe and compliant to international standards drive such scholars.   
This is an extra push because specialized academic programmes/concentrations are either not offered or not well-developed in India. As an example, those students who want niche engineering major, interdisciplinary programmes, or medical specialization might find greater opportunities in the foreign market [4]. In addition, the presence of English-taught courses in non-English speaking countries, as is the case in the Czech Republic, eliminates a language barrier and also allows access to various educational philosophies and points of view at the same time. 
Career and Economic Motivations  
Professional growth and improved job opportunities are major reasons that make a good percentage of Indian students pursue education in foreign countries. The international degree, especially a degree of a well reputed institution, is seen to enhance the employability of the individual, the availability of better job opportunities and a better pay not only in India but also in other parts of the world. Indeed, empirical research findings clearly show a career consideration as one of the most important motivators among Indian international students [7], [13],[19]. students argue that foreign education equips them with skills that are specialised, credible qualifications and wide networks which gives them a competitive edge in the labour market. Acquiring international work experience, whether done at academic terms by taking internships or by subsequent employment, is a major motivational factor. A lot of students consider studying overseas as an opportunity to international career opportunities or achieving overseas professional experience to be back to India with more credentials and formative exposure. The countries that offer post-study work permit or fast-tracked routes to permanent residence are specifically popular in this respect. Economic reasons include the chances of increased lifetime income. Families consider international education as an investment that would bring returns through better career prospects and increased income. This financial calculus particularly has a big implication on middle-class families who make significant sacrifices to finance foreign education spending. 
 
Personal and Developmental Motivations  
In addition to the traditional educational and career goals, an impressive shipment of Indian pupils is driven by the desires associated with individual advancement. The idea of studying abroad is often imagined as a pathway to personal development, independence, maturity, and self-discovery. To young adults who are in the transitional stage to adulthood, living independently in a foreign country, facing new challenges and being in charge of their own lives is a critical encounter with development. Empirical studies supported by the Self-Determination Theory have reported that motives related to autonomy and self-development are important factors that define the choice to study overseas. [4], [29].  
Cultural exposure and desire to experience different cultures and their ways of living and thinking are some of the influencing factors driving many students. The likelihood of travelling, learning about other different societies, developing intercultural competence, and broadening world view is not only treasured but also in terms of a professional benefit in a highly globalized environment[4].  To some students, adventure and excitement of living in a foreign country is a motivating factor. 
Social and Family Motivations  
There is also a factor of familial expectations and the social culture pressure, which motivates the Indian students to attend overseas education. In most Indian families, especially the families of the middle and upper-middle social groups, foreign education is very valued and interpreted as the measure of personal achievement and status. Parents often have significant expectations of their children to study abroad and can have a strong level of control in the decision-making process. Empirical studies have reported that even though there are those learners making independent decisions on to study abroad, others are coerced into a strong form of family influence that could undermine the quality of their motivation and influence future academic and sociocultural engagements. [1], [19].  
There is a significant impact of peer and social network dynamics. When the familiar, family members or local people take up study abroad and they see positive reports, these experiences create aspirational intentions and provide operational intelligence that facilitates the processes of decision making that are ancillary. With the introduction of social media and online communication platforms, these network-mediated phenomena have become even more acute such that data relating to overseas academic activities becomes more accessible and visible [19].  
Challenges Faced by Indian Students Abroad  
As much as there are many opportunities in studying abroad, Indian students face a lot of challenges which affect their experiences and their results. The need to understand these challenges is essential in ensuring that the host destinations including Czech Republic can develop effective support mechanisms [6]. 
Academic Challenges: The students of India might face academic problems regarding the dissimilarity between the educational systems, pedagogical methods, and institutional requirements of the Indian context. The transition to a Western-style of education based on discussion and critical thinking as opposed to an examination-driven and content-based curriculum is usually a major challenge. Although the programmes are carried out in English, it is possible that the language barriers hinder the understanding and participation. Empirical research has revealed that academic adjustment is a common problem amongst foreign students and requires premeditated time and institutional coverage. [6].  
Financial Challenges: Although a high level of planning is done, a good percentage of Indian students have been subjected to financial pressure during their studies in foreign countries. The cost of international education, even in relatively low-cost countries of residence, is a significant cost. Unpredictability in the exchange rates, unplanned spending, and limited financial capabilities may cause stress, thus affecting the wellness and academic performance of students [15]. Also, time constraints associated with the need to work part-time to make ends meet have a negative impact on academic activity [28]. 
Cultural and Social Challenges: Among the most faced challenges faced by the Indian students studying in foreign countries, cultural adaptation and social integration have been reported. These people have to overcome some unknown cultural norms, social behaviors and ways of communicating and this results in culture shock, homesickness and sensation of being isolated especially at the first months of their overseas placement. The process of creating new social networks and developing significant relationships within an international setting may be laborious, particularly in the cases when language barriers are present, or domestic students have the tendency to avoid interacting with international students. Empirical studies of intercultural transition have placed on record, the numerous aspects of cultural adjustment, the aspects that favour effective adaptation, and those that hamper effective adjustment.[6] [30].  
Discrimination and Safety Concerns: Some of the Indian students might face discrimination, racism, or harassment in their new places of residence and this can significantly affect their wellbeing and belonging. The cases of violence or discrimination of international students as witnessed in different countries create safety fears that could discourage potential students. Empirical data shows that satisfaction and perceptions of safety and discrimination are essential factors that determine the satisfaction of international students in choosing a destination. [18], [30].  
Psychological and Mental Health Challenges: The combination of academic pressures, economic complexity, problems with adapting to the culture, and social isolation significantly influence the mental wellbeing of international students. This population is subject to anxiety, depressive symptoms and chronic stress.[23] [6] Often mental-health services and culturally informed counseling are not accessible, which only increases such issues. Modern studies are becoming more and more convinced that the psychological health of international learners should be taken care of to achieve academic success and general satisfaction.  [28].  
Visa and Immigration Challenges: The visa processes, adherence to immigration policies, and victimization to uncertainties about employment opportunities available after graduation or the host country status are the factors that create psychological stress and erode the perceived security and long-term planning among the students [1]. Alterations on immigration policy, particularly restrictive ones, can cause apprehension and reduce the appeal of a destination [20].  
Family Separation and Responsibilities: The distance between the family members, especially in time of significant family occasions or a crisis, is an emotionally difficult process to many Indian students. Besides, a percentage of students face demands to support relatives or relatives are expected to support them financially, which will lead to the emergence of conflicts between personal career ambitions or the urge to obtain international experience and family demands.   
These problems have been recorded through research studies specifically aimed at the experiences of Indian students in other countries. A research on the reasons and limitations of Indian students moving to foreign countries revealed that although the students were driven by the prospects of education and employment, they also faced a lot of challenges related to cultural adjustment, money, and separation with their families [19]. A study done on Indian students in most European destinations has enlightened on not only the opportunities that such students have but also on the challenges they face, hence the need to have supportive systems and inclusive environments. [2], [30].  
In the case of Czech Republic, the understanding of these motivations and challenges is a condition to the development of effective recruitment strategies and supportive services. The marketing efforts should highlight how the institutions of higher education in the Czech Republic can address the academic, professional, and personal growth goals of the Indian students, and at the same time alleviate the cost, safety, and institutional support concerns.[10] Moreover, the support services should be designed to enable a smooth process of academic acculturation, cultural assimilation, social integration and psychological well-being hence recognising the unique needs and challenges faced by the Indian students [5].  
4. Czech Republic as a Study Destination  
Over the past two decades, the Czech Republic has become a very appealing destination by international students including the Indian ones [39]. This section focuses on an introduction to the system of Czech higher-education and considers the specific features that make Czech Republic attractive to international scholars and specifically examines other factors that impact destination decisions among Indian students [20]. 
 
1. Overview of Czech Higher Education System  
The Czech higher education system has a rich and long history, some of the universities can be tracked to the mediaeval times. Charles University formed in 1348 is one of the oldest and flagship universities in Europe. Modern Czech higher education system was adjusted after the Velvet Revolution of 1989 and the following democratization and adoption of a market economy in the country. Later reforms in the 2000s occurred to harmonies the system with European standards via the Bologna Process which introduced a three-cycle system of degrees (bachelor, master, doctoral) and encouraged movement and recognition throughout European systems of higher learning [40]. 
The system of higher education in the Czech Republic consists of state universities, private universities and public universities. The majority of the institutions are public universities that are mostly state-supported and include the most prestigious universities [41]. The programmes that are provided in these universities cover a great spectrum of subjects, such as humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, engineering, medicine, and arts. The private universities that have grown in numbers since 1990s are more likely to specialise in a given subject including business, law, and social sciences. State universities are also specialisation universities which are dedicated on subjects like military and police education [41]. 
Traditionally, tuition-free studies in the Czech language are offered in Czech universities to international students by the Czech state. The programmes offered in foreign languages, which are mainly English programmes are however normally charged. This two-tier system enables foreign students willing and able to pursue their studies in Czech to enjoy free education, and those who prefer programmes in English pay fees which although substantial, tend to be lower as compared to the fees in Western European states or other Anglophone destinations [41]. 
Bologna Process has helped Czech higher education to become internationalised. Czech universities have proliferated English programmes especially at the master and doctoral degrees to allow the entry of international students and increase their global image. European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) facilitates recognition of credit and free flow of students in institutions in Europe. The universities in Czech embrace the European exchange programmes like Erasmus+ that attract students studying in other European nations on temporary basis [41], [42]. 
The quality assurance of higher education in the Czech Republic is conducted by the National Accreditation Bureau that conducts systematic examination and accreditation of study programmes and institutions. Though the Czech universities are not strategically placed in the world ranking that is normally dominated by Anglophone institutions, some of them have strong reputations, especially in certain fields of discipline. In particular, the best examples include Charles University, Czech Technical University in Prague, Masaryk University in Brno, and 
Palacky University in Olomouc that can attract a significant number of international students [41], [42].  
The Czech higher education system has very strong focus on research, particularly at the doctoral stage and Czech universities are members of European research networks and funding opportunities. This research orientation gives the graduate students the chance to participate in research projects, financial aid, and even cooperate with the scholars of the international community [41], [42].  
2. Attractiveness for International Students  
The attractiveness of the Czech Republic is a destination country to international higher education students, especially the ones with an Indian background, can be explained by a shooting-star of academic, financial, geographic, cultural, and pragmatic aspects. The interpretation of these traits provides explanatory information about the choice of the Indian scholars and help to explain the competitive positioning of the Czech Republic in comparison with other available locations [7]. 
Academic Quality and Program Availability  
The institutions of higher education in Czech offer quality education in a wide range of fields with specific strong sides in such areas as medicine, engineering, natural sciences and arts.  Czech academic sphere is credited and prestigious by the long-standing academic tradition of such institutions like Charles University.  To the student nationals of India, the availability of the English-taught programmes consistent with their interests makes a determinant factor in their institutional selection.  The number of courses available in English taught in Czech universities has also increased and especially medicine, engineering, business, and computer science, which have gained much popularity among Indian students [43].  One of the weaknesses and the main draw is medical education. The Czech Republic offers six-year programmes of the Doctor of medicine which are taught in English and are recognised internationally, such as the accreditation of medical councils in India, in the United States and other jurisdictions.  A combination of highquality medical education and relatively low tuition fees compared to medical schools in the Western countries or even to the Indian and other privately run medical colleges in India has made the Czech Republic a favourite destination among potential physicians of India and other countries. A study conducted on student migration of Kerala to Europe has particularly mentioned the Czech Republic as a medical study destination. [2].  
Financial Affordability  
Indian students are extremely cost-conscious, as it is mentioned in in Section 3.2.2; the Czech 
Republic offers significant cost-efficiencies. The cost of tuition at English-taught courses at Czech state universities traditionally lies between the price of two thousand and fifteen thousand a year, depending on the programme and the level. This is a significant decrease compared to tuition fees in the United Kingdom (around £15.000-£30.000), the United States (about $20.000-
$50.000) and some states in Western Europe. Regarding life costs, the Czech Republic, particularly the areas outside Prague city, remain relatively low in terms of cost of living as compared to the rest of Western Europe. Students can afford cheap housing, and the daily spending to food, transportation, and recreation are affordable. The low cost of Czech Republic makes it affordable to middle-income Indian families who would want to provide their children with European education but cannot afford more expensive countries. The fact that European education, which has international awareness, could be acquired at a fraction of the price of the traditional destinations is a very salient repelling force [15]. 
Geographic Location and European Access  
The geographic location of the Czech Republic is central Europe, which is a strategic opportunity. The state lies centrally in the European continent, thereby granting easy access to other European countries hence giving the students the opportunity to travel, experience different cultures with others, and create pan-European networks. The fact that a student of Indian origin will have the prospect of visiting several European countries during their academic programme will add significant weight to the learning process and will make this an attractive offer.[44] 
Being a country of the European Union and Schengen Area, Czech Republic grants students the access to the larger European area. Non-EU students do not face unrestrained opportunities; however, they usually have the right to move freely within the Schengen Zone throughout their study, which simplifies the integration into the local culture and the establishment of professional contacts. Besides, the EU membership will mean that the degrees earned in the Czech Republic will be recognised throughout the EU, which can make those degrees more emblazoned or allow to study in other European jurisdictions [44]. 
Safety and Quality of Life  
Czech Republic is an area that is safely considered to be a safe country with low crime rates, stable political situation and a high standard of living. In the case of Indian parents and students who value the aspect of safety, especially in the backdrop of the reported cases of violence or discrimination of international students in other countries, the image of the country being a safe place serves as a powerful pull factor. It ranks well in a number of quality-of-life indicators, with strong healthcare, good transport infrastructure, clean environment and strong culture [41], [44]. 
The capital of Prague is acclaimed to have an ancient aesthetic, dynamic culture and a cosmopolitan atmosphere. It is always in the list of the most beautiful cities in Europe and offers a high standard of life with the combination of antique and contemporary facilities. The other Czech neighborhoods like Brno, Olomouc and Plzen also have favourable living conditions with cheaper prices and warmer communal environment [30]. 
Cultural Richness and European Experience  
Czech Republic is a country that boasts of a rich cultural heritage, including historical architecture, museums, theatres, music, and the fine arts. To the students who are fascinated with European culture and history, this country offers a detachable academic experience. The cultural specificity of Western and Eastern Europe due to its location as the centre of the intersection of these cultures gives it a certain cultural trait that synthesises the elements of various European cultures.   
The opportunity to explore the unique European lifestyle, which is contrasted with social and cultural backgrounds of the countries of India and Anglophone countries, can be interesting to the students who seek personal development and intercultural competence. [21]Even though the cultural difference might be a challenge, it also presents learning and development opportunities. 
Presence of Indian Student Community  
The growing population of Indian students studying in Czech universities particularly in metro cities like Prague and Brno creates network effects that bring about further growth of the population group. The established communities of Indian students provide the essential social support and exchange of information, as well as, a familiarity of the culture to the new students. The work of Indian student associations, holding cultural events and working of informal networks all facilitate the adjustment process and alleviate the sense of isolation. Empirical studies have always shown that the existence of co-national communities is a major factor that determines the destination selection and the successful accommodation. [1], [30].  
Language and Communication  
Although the official language is the Czech one, which is used in the daily life, the presence of programmes offered in English can eradicate the major barrier to academic activity the language barrier. Another interesting group of younger Czech nationals, particularly in urban areas and in university settings, is skilled in English thus making intercommunicating easy. However, a limited proficiency of English by the larger population and select service environments can be a hindrance to the everyday life of the people. To those students prone to learning Czech, the language teaching is generally available, and the command of the language can enhance socialisation and provide additional opportunities [41],[43], [44]. 
Immigration and Work Opportunities  
The immigration policies of the Czech Republic towards international students are rather liberal; however, they are not as liberal as the immigration policies of some other European countries. The applicants have a right to obtain long-term residence permits of the entire course of their studies and are usually allowed to work part-time (limited to 20 hours per week during the study years and unlimited during vacation times). The provisions can provide students with an opportunity to accumulate professional experience and, at the same time, alleviate their financial situation [45]. 
Comparatively, the range of post-graduation job opportunities, in contrast to such jurisdictions as Canada or Australia, which offer explicit post-study work visas, is relatively limited. However, the alumni that find employment in the Czech Republic can apply to labour permits or employee cards. The local labour force qualifies the demand of skilled human resource in a variety of several major sectors, particularly in information technology and engineering among other important sectors such as health care, and thus offers a variety of opportunities to the new graduates. Moreover, EU Blue Card regime promotes the attraction of highly skilled non-EU professionals throughout the entire European Union, a tool, that can also benefit Czech graduates who want to work outside of the country [45].  
Institutional Support and Services  
Czech universities have increasingly realised the necessity of accommodating international students and have created international offices, orientation programmes and support services. The level and quality of these services vary among institutions, although there is an increased realisation of the need to align international students both academically and socially. The types of support include buddy programmes, language courses, cultural activities and counselling services [5].  
Challenges and Limitations  
On the one hand, there are a great number of attractions in the Czech Republic, but, on the other hand, the country faces challenges in the competition of international students. It has a relative low global visibility and brand awareness compared to the traditional destinations, thus the need to be proactive in its marketing and recruitment efforts. In the daily environment, language barrier will be a major problem to students who are not proficient in the Czech language. Moreover, the climate with cold winters might be new and uncomfortable to the students used to the tropical climate of the Indian territories. Bureaucratic processes, including visa applications and renewing of residence permits, are generally complex and time consuming. Moreover, despite the overall welcoming demeanor of the Czech Republic, there may be occasional cases of discrimination or xenophobia, although they are not so widespread, and thus can affect the experience of students [46]. 
The literature on the Czech Republic in particular as a destination country among Indian students is rather scarce, however, the works on Indian students in other Central and Eastern European nations provide relevant information. The analysis of Indian students in Latvia proves that cultural factors, programme availability, and affordability are strong motivators, and language barriers and cultural adjustment are considered to be the significant challenges [30]. Research on student migration of Kerala to Europe also included the Czech Republic in the list of examined destinations, which highlights the impact of the quality and affordability of education. [2].  
To sum up, the Czech Republic is a unique blend of features that make it an attractive destination the Indian students should travel to find high-quality and affordable tertiary education in Europe. 
Its educational capabilities, especially in medicine and engineering, financial accessibility, central European location, safety and the growing Indian student body make it a credible alternative to both the classic Anglophone destinations and other European alternatives. 
However, to increase its competitiveness, the organisation will require long-term work to raise its visibility, increase support services, integration, and effective communication of its value proposition to the potential Indian students and their families [46].

==================================================================================================================================================================================================

Timestamp	Score	What is your name?	How old are you?	What is your gender? 	What is your E-mail address?	What is your current status in the Czech Republic?	By which year, have you arrived in the Czech Republic?	What is the name of the University/College you are or were enrolled in?	What level of degree are you pursuing/pursued? 	Is your program taught in English? 	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose the Czech Republic for your higher education? [Low tuition fees]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose the Czech Republic for your higher education? [Affordable living cost]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose the Czech Republic for your higher education? [Scholarships availability]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose the Czech Republic for your higher education? [Quality of education]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose the Czech Republic for your higher education? [English Taught programs]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose the Czech Republic for your higher education? [Global Recognition of the degree]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose to stay in the Czech Republic? [Safety and low crime rate]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose to stay in the Czech Republic? [Post study work rights (Job search Visa)]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose to stay in the Czech Republic? [Location in Central Eurpoe ( Travel Opportunities)]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose to stay in the Czech Republic? [Ease of obtaining a student visa]	How important were the following factors in your decision to choose to stay in the Czech Republic? [Presence of an Indian community]	How would you rate the safety of the Czech Republic? 	  Do you feel the "cost of living" in the Czech Republic is manageable for a student?  	Are you currently working part-time/Full-time? 	If Yes, How many hours per week?	 If Yes, does your income cover your basic living expenses?	Roughly how much do you earn per month (in CZK)?	Does your work related to your field of your study?	Rough monthly spending breakdown (in CZK) Monthly: Rent and Leisure/Travel. [Rent]	Rough monthly spending breakdown (in CZK) Monthly: Rent and Leisure/Travel. [Travel/ Leisure]	Rough monthly spending breakdown (in CZK) monthly: Food, Transport, Tuition/Materials,  [Food]	Rough monthly spending breakdown (in CZK) monthly: Food, Transport, Tuition/Materials,  [Transport]	Rough monthly spending breakdown (in CZK) monthly: Food, Transport, Tuition/Materials,  [Tuition/ Materials]	How would you rate job opportunities in Czech republic vs. India for students?	After graduation, what is your plan?	How many months do you expect it’ll take to land your first job after graduating?	How important was the Czech job market in your decision to study here?	Compared to India, how competitive is the job market here in your field?	What’s your main source of funding? (Tick all that apply)	Was affordability a deciding factor in choosing Czechia?	How would you rate your ability to manage living costs here?	How satisfied are you with your overall decision to study in the Czech Republic? 	Would you recommend the Czech Republic to other Indian students? 	What is one suggestion you have for Czech universities to better support Indian students? 
1/16/2026 20:28:13	0	Priyanka Motwani	26–33	Female	priyankani0903.pm@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	1	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	Above 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	2	2	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	One important suggestion would be Having a dedicated international student helpdesk or mentor system would greatly help students feel more supported and integrated.
1/16/2026 20:31:13	0		26–33	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Slightly Important	Slightly Important	Slightly Important	Slightly Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	Above 10,000	Above 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	1	Return to India	3 to 6 months	4	2	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	3	Probably Not	They should have to show every students with the same response no resist
1/16/2026 20:39:31	0	Jayani piyushkumar mukeshbhai 	26–33	Male	20jayani.piyush@gmail.com	Working 	2021	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	1	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40, 40+	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Return to India	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
1/16/2026 21:02:35	0	Shiva	26–33	Male	bcasiva093@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	Not Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	below 10,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	3	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	3	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Maybe	3	3	Maybe	Nothing. 
1/16/2026 21:05:52	0	Ravikumar Solanki	26–33	Male	solankiraviravi@gmail.cm	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Extreme Important	Not Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Not Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes, Maybe	3	5	Maybe	No Comments 
1/16/2026 21:07:09	0	Vir	26–33	Male	virajsoni944@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes, Somewhat	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 15,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	1	Stay and Work in Czechia, Return to India, Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	More than a year	1	1	Personal Savings, Loan	Yes, Maybe	3	4	Probably Not	
1/16/2026 21:08:17	0	Souradeep Pati 	18–25	Male	souradeeppati@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2025	Czech technical university (cvut)	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	4	3	Family Support	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
1/16/2026 21:10:37	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	3	Part-time job	Yes	3	5	Probably Yes	
1/16/2026 21:11:59	0	Kuldeep Bhatt	18–25	Male	bhattkuldeep2005@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Moderately Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Slightly Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	3	2	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Probably Yes	Better communication with students 
1/16/2026 21:23:16	0	Vaidip	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's, Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable, It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	4	4	Family Support, Part-time job	Maybe, No	4	4	Probably Yes	
1/16/2026 21:27:37	0	Pranav	18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	4	4	Family Support, Part-time job	Maybe	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/16/2026 21:34:58	0	Omkar	26–33	Male	Omkar@141414gmail.com	Currently Studying	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	1	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	3	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Loan	Maybe	4	2	Probably Not	My views are brutal so I would not answer this question
1/16/2026 21:56:07	0	Meera	18–25	Female	meeraprajapati1435@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Všfs	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	3	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Probably Yes	
1/16/2026 22:10:28	0	Kushagra Kashyap	26–33	Male	kush2205@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Not Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	More English speaking courses and scholarships 
1/16/2026 22:35:13	0	Suk	18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	5	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/16/2026 22:43:10	0	Ankita Gautam 	26–33	Female		Currently Studying	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Not Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings	Maybe	4	4	Maybe	Everything is good 
1/16/2026 22:48:19	0	Sana Musroor 	18–25	Female	sanamusroor07@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	3	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	2	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	2	4	Family Support	Maybe	3	4	Definitely Yes	Maybe wider range of halal or vegetarian foods in the canteens to cater to the wider indian population. Other than that, maybe using English widely in campus so that we can understand the billboards or notices that come around. Or maybe a community where we can interact with wider international students so that we learn about each other's cultures, etc. 
1/16/2026 22:50:49	0	Harshad 	26–33	Male	patelharshad6262@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Not Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	4	Part-time job	Maybe	3	4	Maybe	adjustment, don't stress, and improve academic success
1/16/2026 23:33:32	0	Ruchi	18–25	Female	ruchi.ramani2003@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	4	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	4	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Maybe	2	5	Probably Yes	
1/17/2026 0:05:05	0	Nayan Chauhan	26–33	Male	Nayanpc2908@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	5	5	Probably Yes	I think they have to increase English taught programs and more internship opportunities. 
1/17/2026 0:56:04	0	Solanki Sonalben Nagarbhai	26–33	Female	sonalnsolanki@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
1/17/2026 1:25:18	0	Abhisha rajput	18–25	Female	Abhisharajput10@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	1	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	1	3	Family Support, Part-time job, Loan	Maybe	2	3	Probably Yes	
1/17/2026 9:30:57	0	Arun	26–33	Male	arunpandey556@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study), 	2019	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	No, it is too expensive	No	Under 10	No	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	Above 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	2	Return to India	More than a year	1	2	Family Support	Maybe	1	1	Definitely Not	Nothing 
1/17/2026 10:05:40	0	Ryker	18–25	Male	yusufvhora2008@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	3	5	Definitely Yes	
1/17/2026 10:24:34	0	Dhairya 	18–25	Male	dhairyapatel.hmt@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Not Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	No	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	1	Return to India	More than a year	1	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Maybe	3	1	Definitely Not	
1/17/2026 10:42:09	0	Kartikkumar Solanki	26–33	Male	kartiksolanki146@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Not Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Not Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	6 to 12 months	3	1	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
1/17/2026 11:31:12	0	Jhanvi bhatt	18–25	Female	bhattjhanvi2000@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	3	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	3	3	Part-time job	Maybe	3	2	Maybe	
1/17/2026 12:22:06	0	Kamini	26–33	Female	Kaminip2498@gmail.com 	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Full time 	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	1	Personal Savings	Yes	2	4	Probably Yes	
1/17/2026 12:34:14	0	BICKY SHARMA	34–40	Male	SHARMADAKSH_99@YAHOO.COM	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	1	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	3	3	Personal Savings	Yes	5	4	Probably Yes	Professors should be more empathetic & helpful rather than just performing their govt. jobs towards every students not just indians.
1/17/2026 12:50:15	0	Shahrookh Khan	26–33	Male	sayedsrkkhan@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Somewhat	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	The University must focus on job-oriented training/course and Placement for foreigners.
1/17/2026 13:13:09	0	Padiya kruti 	18–25	Female	krutinareshpadiya@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	University of chemistry and technology under school of business 	Bachelor's	Yes	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	5	4	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
1/17/2026 13:13:49	0	Kashyap vaghela 	18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2025	University of chemistry and technology 	Bachelor's	Yes	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	3	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	4	3	Family Support, Part-time job	Maybe	5	3	Probably Yes	
1/17/2026 14:23:55	0	Devika 	18–25	Female	devikadinesankd@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	3	3	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Probably Yes	It would be better if they stop discriminating international students and start including them in each and every programs of the University 
1/17/2026 16:26:02	0	Mohit 	26–33	Male		Not in country anymore 	2021	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Not Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Not working anymore 	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Return to India	More than a year	3	5	Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Maybe	
1/17/2026 17:00:44	0	Shaikh Mohammed 	26–33	Male	mashaikh195@gmail.com	Currently Studying, Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	Metropolitan university of prague 	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	Not Important	Not Important	4	It is manageable but rising, No, it is too expensive	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	3	5	Personal Savings	Maybe	3	3	Maybe	Czech universities should implement dedicated integration hubs specifically for Indian students to navigate complex visa renewals and nostrification processes. By providing bilingual administrative support and mandatory 'Life in Czechia' workshops, universities can bridge the cultural gap. Additionally, fostering partnerships with local tech and engineering firms for English-friendly internships would significantly enhance career prospects, helping students transition smoothly from graduation to the local professional workforce.
1/17/2026 17:17:15	0	Vinit Kumar Singh	26–33	Male	Vinit80525@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Very Important	Not Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	3	Personal Savings	Maybe	3	5	Definitely Yes	To provide better dormitory.
1/17/2026 18:04:52	0	Yash kabra 	18–25	Male	yashkabra6127@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Slightly Important	Slightly Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	5	Yes, it is affordable, It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	4	5	Family Support	Maybe	5	4	Maybe	To have some cultural orientation and career counselling 
1/17/2026 21:23:17	0	Ruhii	18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Not Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	No	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	1	Migrate to another Country	6 to 12 months	4	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Maybe	1	1	Definitely Not	There are some Professors who are literally racist and I am not even lying personal experience being asked by a professor that when are you going back to your country there is nothing here and the professor is from CZU!
1/18/2026 2:02:20	0	Sagar	26–33	Male	sagarkhunti95@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Not Important	Not Important	Extreme Important	Not Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Not Important	Not Important	5	No, it is too expensive	Yes	10-20	No	10,000 to 20,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	3	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	3	5	Part-time job	Maybe	3	4	Definitely Not	Be nice with brown asia people 
1/18/2026 13:13:57	0	Adhvait Shastri 	26–33	Male	adhvaitshastri2406@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	2	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	5	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	I would like to suggest to the university should allow to provide jobs on campus and and support to get the jobs off campus also.
1/18/2026 16:35:52	0	Kewal Patel 	26–33	Male	Kewal18995@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	5	Yes, it is affordable, It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	4	3	Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Maybe	3	5	Probably Yes	
1/19/2026 14:06:40	0		26–33	Male		Currently Studying	2023	VSE	Master's	Yes	Slightly Important	Very Important	Not Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	No	Under 10	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	3	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	2	3	Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
1/19/2026 16:05:19	0	Rushik	26–33	Male	rushikp313@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	Above 10,000	3	Not sure yet	More than a year	3	3	Personal Savings	Maybe	5	3	Maybe	Free full Czech courses with regular studying and that compulsory 
1/19/2026 16:45:06	0	Jay kotadia 	26–33	Male	jaykotadia30@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Not sure yet	More than a year	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Maybe	4	4	Probably Yes	Tell them remove Mathematic subjects 😅 its so hard.
1/20/2026 0:19:09	0	Neel Patel 	18–25	Male	neelp0859@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2025	University of chemistry and technology 	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/21/2026 18:20:59	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	5	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	5	Probably Yes	
1/21/2026 18:21:22	0	Jervis	34–40	Male	woh sab nhi batana	Studying + Part-time Working	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Not Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	2	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	Make sure they know what the country is and how its weather, culture and everything is completely different from India
1/21/2026 18:22:48	0	Anand Prakash 	34–40	Male	anandprakash251286@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	5	3	Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
1/21/2026 18:27:43	0	Heena	18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	5	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Definitely Yes	
1/21/2026 18:31:56	0	Nobel	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	5	3	Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Definitely Yes	
1/21/2026 18:34:24	0	Deva	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	2	Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Probably Yes	
1/21/2026 18:36:39	0	Mohan 	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	3	Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Maybe	
1/21/2026 18:40:23	0	Ghulam jeelani khan 	34–40	Male		Currently Studying	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	Above 10,000	4	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	5	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship	Yes	3	3	Maybe	
1/21/2026 20:16:49	0	Akarshit Deshwal	18–25	Male	deshwalakarsh367@gmail.com	Currently Studying, Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	4	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	Clearer, student-friendly guidance in English about visas, housing, and daily life in Czechia, so Indian students feel less confused and more supported when they arrive.
1/21/2026 20:30:27	0	Kazi Mahabub Hasan 	26–33	Male	kazimahabubhasan.12@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Not Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	6 to 12 months	4	3	Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Probably Yes	Good accommodation 
1/21/2026 20:45:00	0	Dinesh Suthar	34–40	Male	dinesh.suthar275@gmail.com	Currently Studying, Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	5	5	Personal Savings, Loan	Yes	3	5	Definitely Yes	Students should have some important skills and shouldn’t set high expectations for jobs. I 
1/22/2026 10:16:42	0	Nivedita	18–25	Female		Currently Studying	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	6 to 12 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	Vše
1/23/2026 12:16:24	0		26–33	Male		Currently Studying, Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech technical university	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	3	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Maybe	
1/23/2026 13:39:03	0	Rohan patel	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2022	CTU	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
1/23/2026 13:44:48	0		26–33	Female		Currently Studying	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/23/2026 17:36:48	0	Arjun	26–33	Male		Currently Studying	2021	Masaryk University	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
1/23/2026 17:41:18	0	Aanya	18–25	Female		Currently Studying	2022	Brno University of Technology (BUT)	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/23/2026 17:48:49	0	Rohan	26–33	Male		Currently Studying, Studying + Part-time Working	2024	University of New York in Prague	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India, Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
1/23/2026 18:24:02	0	Aarav	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2020	Janáček Academy of Music and Performing Arts Brno (JAMU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
1/23/2026 18:30:03	0	Vikram	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2025	Mendel University in Brno	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20, 20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India, Not sure yet	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/23/2026 18:32:56	0	Karan	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2025	University of New York in Prague	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable, It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20, 20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job, Loan	Yes	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/23/2026 18:41:37	0	Siddharth	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Masaryk University	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000, 10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes, Maybe	5	5	Maybe	
1/23/2026 18:44:34	0	Rahul	26–33	Male		Currently Studying, Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Masaryk University	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially, No	20,000 to 40,000, 10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Yes, Maybe	5	5	Probably Yes	
1/23/2026 18:47:16	0	Dev	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2025	Prague City University	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	No, it is too expensive	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Yes, Maybe	3	4	Probably Yes	
1/24/2026 3:29:33	0		26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2023	Masaryk University 	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	3	Family Support, Part-time job, Loan	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
1/25/2026 20:49:07	0	Pooja	18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2022	Paneuropean 	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	3	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Probably Yes	Be less racist
1/26/2026 21:31:46	0	Vivek Singh	26–33	Male	viveks260892@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	More than a year	5	1	Family Support	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	CZU
1/27/2026 15:41:40	0	Priyanshu Solanki	18–25	Male	priyanshun3012@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2026	Czech University of Life Sciences 	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	No	30-40	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
1/30/2026 11:51:55	0	Rahul	26–33	Male	rahul001@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech Technical University	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	4	Return to India	Less than 3 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	Study system is too complicated, thesis and statexam along with normal exam. if they can make it easier its nice
1/30/2026 11:58:58	0	Aarav	18–25	Male	aaravkhana2000@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2024	VSE	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	Under 10	Yes, partially	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	Less than 3 months	4	4	Family Support, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Probably Yes	ALL GOOD
2/1/2026 19:51:19	0	Harsh	26–33	Male	harshgal18@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	CTU	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	3 to 6 months	5	4	Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Maybe	
2/1/2026 19:55:32	0		26–33	Female		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	CHARLES	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	Yes, partially	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	More than a year	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings	Maybe	4	4	Maybe	
2/1/2026 19:57:23	0	Prapti Patel	18–25	Female	patelprapti2001@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	UTC	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India, Migrate to another Country	6 to 12 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	5	Definitely Yes	
2/1/2026 20:40:44	0	Priya Darshan	18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India, Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/1/2026 20:48:25	0	Ritu Bhatt	26–33	Female	ritubhatt14@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	Masaryk Univ	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	No	40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	Amazing jOURNEY
2/1/2026 20:49:50	0	Megha Bhatt	18–25	Female	meghabhatt2004@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	Under 10	Yes, partially	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/1/2026 20:51:48	0	Durva Salunkhe	26–33	Female	durvasalunkhe2000@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	5	Return to India, Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	3	4	Definitely Yes	
2/1/2026 21:32:23	0	nimesh poriya	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study), 	2022	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	5	5	Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/1/2026 21:35:21	0	sanil patel	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working, Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2023	VSE	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30, 30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/1/2026 22:09:54	0	Jasmine Rao	26–33	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	ctu	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	Yes, partially	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	More than a year	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/2/2026 22:28:55	0	Sajad ck	18–25	Male	anusajadck2@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Metropolitan University 	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	No, it is too expensive	Yes	10-20	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	4	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	4	4	Part-time job, Loan	Yes, Maybe	5	3	Maybe	
2/3/2026 0:48:53	0	Alema Tinwala 	26–33	Female	alematinwala19@gmail.com	Spouse 	2025	No	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	1	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	3	2	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	One suggestion is for Czech universities to offer dedicated support services for Indian students, including clear guidance on visa procedures, cultural orientation programs, and accessible academic advising to help them adjust smoothly to life and studies in the Czech Republic.
2/4/2026 12:19:32	0	Ravi Sharma	18–25	Male	sharma.ravi2996@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Czech Technical University	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India, Not sure yet	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/4/2026 21:16:22	0	Pranjalkumar Hemantkumar Soni	18–25	Male	sonipranjal1412@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2025	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	4	3	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Probably Yes	
2/5/2026 10:01:00	0	Adhu	34–40	Male		Graduated +Not working	2022	Czech Technical University 	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	Above 30,000	below 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	1	Not sure yet	6 to 12 months	2	1	Family Support	Yes	3	3	Probably Yes	Support part time jobs till study completion and promote English language too.
Actively engage companies for 100% campus placement in various domains.
Achieve 100% pass percentile in semesters.
Involve full scholarships based on the grades students get after each semester.
2/5/2026 15:48:40	0	Sita Janaki	26–33	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2021	VSE	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Return to India, Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	5	Probably Yes	
2/5/2026 15:50:55	0		18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2025	CTU	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Return to India	Less than 3 months	4	5	Family Support, Personal Savings	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 15:55:36	0	Shinu	18–25	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	Czech university of life science (CZU)	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	4	Yes, it is affordable, It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:13:15	0		18–25	Female		Currently Studying	2024	CZU	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:15:25	0		26–33	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	uct	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	Above 60,000 to 100,000, 10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Return to India, Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	4	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Maybe	
2/5/2026 16:19:03	0	Himanshu patel	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2025	CTU	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India	Less than 3 months	3	3	Family Support, Part-time job, Scholarship	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:20:27	0		18–25	Female		Currently Studying, Studying + Part-time Working	2024	UNYP	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	5	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Maybe	
2/5/2026 16:21:50	0	patel Ramesh	26–33	Male		Currently Studying	2025	vse	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat, No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Return to India	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	5	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:26:20	0		26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2019	uct	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Return to India	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:29:24	0		18–25	Prefer not to say		Currently Studying	2025	metropolitan	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	Less than 3 months	5	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	3	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:31:28	0	bharat kumar	18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	charles 	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:33:14	0		18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2022	charles	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:38:09	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Charles	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:38:42	0		26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	CTU	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30, 30-40	Yes, fully, Yes, partially	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Loan	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:40:12	0		34–40	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2015	vse	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, partially	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	5	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:41:42	0		26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2023	VSE	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30, 30-40	Yes, fully, Yes, partially	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	10,000 to 7,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	5	5	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 16:54:12	0		18–25	Prefer not to say		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	charles	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Somewhat	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	6 to 12 months	4	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/5/2026 17:19:32	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	ctu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	Less than 3 months	3	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	3	3	Maybe	
2/6/2026 14:00:14	0		18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	vse	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	Above 10,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	6 to 12 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/6/2026 14:02:14	0	rohan mehra	26–33	Male	rohanmehra27@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Return to India, Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	3	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	3	3	Probably Yes	
2/7/2026 14:38:09	0	Manpreet	40+	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	CZU	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Moderately Important	Not Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	10,000 to 7,000	2	Return to India	3 to 6 months	2	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Probably Yes	
2/8/2026 7:35:14	0	Shreya	26–33	Female		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	Charles 	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	No, it is too expensive	Yes	30-40, 40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	More than a year	4	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Loan	Yes	3	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 7:40:27	0		26–33	Prefer not to say		Currently Studying	2021	Anglo American university 	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	Above 30,000	Above 30,000	Above 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 7:42:42	0		40+	Male		Currently Studying	2024	CZU 	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	No, it is too expensive	Yes	10-20	No	10,000 to 20,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Migrate to another Country	6 to 12 months	3	3	Loan	Yes	3	2	Maybe	
2/8/2026 7:46:13	0		18–25	Prefer not to say		Currently Studying	2023	Vsfs 	Bachelor's	No	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Not Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	2	Return to India	6 to 12 months, More than a year	3	3	Personal Savings, Loan	Yes	3	3	Maybe	
2/8/2026 7:48:17	0		34–40	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2022	CZU 	PhD	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat, No	10,000 to 15,000	15,000 to 30,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Loan	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 7:51:24	0		26–33	Prefer not to say		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	Masaryk university 	Bachelor's	No	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	3	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	Less than 3 months	5	5	Personal Savings, Part-time job, Loan	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 16:33:48	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	University of south bohemia 	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	5	4	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	3	Probably Yes	Everything
2/8/2026 17:29:05	0		26–33	Female		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2019	vse	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	please learn also english
2/8/2026 17:30:45	0	Riya makhija	18–25	Female		Currently Studying	2025	Charles	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	5	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia, Return to India, Not sure yet	More than a year	3	3	Family Support	Maybe	4	5	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 17:32:16	0	Ram	34–40	Male	ramlakhan24@icloud.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2017	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Slightly Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	6 to 12 months	4	4	Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 17:45:06	0	sia	26–33	Female	raman2001@GMAIL.COM	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	CZU	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 17:47:02	0	Rohan Wadhwa	26–33	Male	WADVARO28@GMAIL.COM	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	CHARLES	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	3	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 17:48:44	0	Prem Shinghania	34–40	Male	srsinghania78@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2013	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	6 to 12 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 17:54:57	0	Aaravrai	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Chemistry	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	More than a year	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:04:48	0	Hiral 	18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	czu	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/8/2026 18:06:12	0		34–40	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2015	ceske budovice	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:08:46	0	Jaya 	26–33	Female	jayarao26@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Pardubice	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:10:57	0	Khushi rao	18–25	Female	khush2009@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2025	Masaryk University	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:12:27	0	Dhariya 	18–25	Male	raodhariya45@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Brno University of Technology 	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:14:26	0	Payal Chauhan	26–33	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2021	uct	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	5	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:17:54	0	Shukla Shivam	26–33	Male	sukshivam89@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	Palacký University Olomouc	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:20:08	0	Kirtan Patel	26–33	Male	palkir74@gmail.com	Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2023	Brno University of Technology	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	
2/8/2026 18:39:33	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Brno University of Technology	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	4	Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/8/2026 19:06:37	0		26–33	Female		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2014	charles	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Not Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/9/2026 10:07:34	0	Ketan Patel	18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	Charles University	Bachelor's	Yes	Moderately Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	3	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	More open Communications with students
2/9/2026 10:13:40	0	Urvi modi	18–25	Female		Currently Studying	2025	Czech University of life sciences Prague	Master's	Yes	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	15,000 to 30,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	Better communication with the students would be nice
2/9/2026 15:36:36	0	Lakshmikanth Narayanasamy 	26–33	Male	lakshmikanthnarayanasamy@gmail.com	Currently Studying	2025	Czu	Master's	Yes	Slightly Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Not sure yet	Less than 3 months, 3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job, Scholarship, Loan	Yes, Maybe	4	4	Probably Yes	Liberal 
2/9/2026 18:10:53	0	MD SABIRUL ISLAM	26–33	Male	md.sabirul.islam2024@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Czech University of life Science	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	4	Part-time job	Maybe, No	4	5	Definitely Yes	They should not increase the tuition fees. and if any student has only 1/2 courses left to finish their degree, then the university should compromise to pay the full tuition fees for that 1/2 courses or another academic year. 
2/9/2026 21:26:34	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	3	It is manageable but rising	No	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	3	3	Family Support, Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 10:47:43	0	kanha	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	Above 10,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia, Return to India, Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 10:52:05	0	shiva jaishankar	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2025	Charles	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	5	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	Yes, partially	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	4	Return to India	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 11:36:54	0		26–33	Female		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2016	vse	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 11:38:15	0	dilpreet	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2021	czu	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	15,000 to 30,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/12/2026 11:39:28	0	dilraj	18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2025	czu	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 12:06:07	0		26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2015	brno	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	6 to 12 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	4	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 12:24:28	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	UO pardubice	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	Above 10,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	5	Definitely Yes	AMAZING
2/12/2026 12:27:27	0		34–40	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2016	CZU	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	Above 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	6 to 12 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	Many things has changed so its fine
2/12/2026 12:29:21	0	rina	18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2025	vse	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia, Migrate to another Country, Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 12:59:24	0	tina suthar	34–40	Female		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2015	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	Above 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 14:10:57	0	tia	18–25	Female		Currently Studying	2025	uct	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	3	It is manageable but rising	No	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Not sure yet	More than a year	4	4	Family Support, Personal Savings	No	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/12/2026 14:12:23	0		26–33	Female		Currently Studying	2025	czu	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Maybe	
2/12/2026 14:14:13	0		34–40	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2016	czu	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	3	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	3	3	Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Probably Yes	
2/12/2026 15:55:27	0	Kazi	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2021	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Maybe	
2/15/2026 9:31:39	0	Vishnu	18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2025	czu	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Family Support	Yes	3	3	Probably Yes	
2/15/2026 10:31:42	0	vishal Bavadiya 	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	STU	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable, It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Loan	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 11:40:47	0		26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	budovice	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 11:41:58	0	Nivedita Khurana	26–33	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	charles	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Slightly Important	3	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	3	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/15/2026 11:43:02	0	Dipal rajput	34–40	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2013	czu	Master's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Maybe	4	3	Probably Yes	
2/15/2026 11:44:17	0	Hetal Barot	18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2023	pardubice	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	3	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	3	3	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 14:57:07	0		34–40	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2015	Charles	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	3	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	40+	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	Above 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	Above 10,000	Above 10,000	10,000 to 7,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	6 to 12 months	4	4	Personal Savings	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 14:58:05	0	Dilpreet	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2021	czu	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	15,000 to 30,000	15,000 to 30,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	10,000 to 7,000	3	Return to India, Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	3	3	Part-time job	Yes	3	3	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 15:27:04	0	Bavadiya sagar 	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2023	VSE	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 15:30:35	0	Pradip Kachhadiya 	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2018	CTU	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	5	5	Family Support	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 15:35:12	0	Tushar patel 	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study), 	2023	VES	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	5	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	Above 60,000 to 100,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	5	5	Family Support, Personal Savings, Loan	Yes	5	5	Definitely Yes	
2/15/2026 16:39:58	0		26–33	Female		Currently Studying	2021	Charles University 	PhD	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Slightly Important	5	It is manageable but rising	Working but in the same place as study	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Not sure yet	3 to 6 months	4	3	Scholarship	Yes	4	3	Probably Yes	
2/15/2026 17:47:24	0		18–25	Male		Currently Studying	2022	Charles University 	Bachelor's, Master's	No	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Not Important	Extreme Important	Not Important	Extremely Important	Not Important	Not Important	Not Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Searching 	Under 10	No	below 10,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	3	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	1	4	Family Support	Yes, Maybe, No	1	3	Maybe	
2/15/2026 18:36:18	0		18–25	Female		Studying + Part-time Working	2025	ctu	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Return to India, Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Family Support, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/26/2026 17:32:49	0		18–25	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2024	Charles University	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, fully	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/26/2026 17:35:10	0	Sharma Krishna	26–33	Female	krishnasharma2000@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	UCT	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	5	5	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/26/2026 17:41:55	0	Kishan	26–33	Male		Studying + Part-time Working	2021	CTU	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Return to India	3 to 6 months	4	5	Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	Allow more czech courses
2/26/2026 17:43:34	0	Viral Patel	26–33	Male	Viralphotography2001@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	CZU	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	10-20	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	Less than 3 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	remove maths from bachelors courses 
2/26/2026 17:45:18	0	Rudri Trivedi	26–33	Female	trivdedirudri956@gmail.com	Studying + Part-time Working	2023	CZU	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	No	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	7,000 to 4,000	4,000 to 1,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	5	Definitely Yes	please do something about the assignments its too much
2/26/2026 17:46:59	0	Ronnie	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2021	CZU	Bachelor's	Yes	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	40,000 to 60,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	below 10,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	7,000 to 4,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Personal Savings, Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	Final exam make it more easy
2/26/2026 17:48:27	0	Aesha Patel	26–33	Female		Currently Studying	2025	university of Pardubice	Bachelor's	Yes	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	Slightly Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	10-20	Yes, partially	10,000 to 20,000	No	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	5	Migrate to another Country	Less than 3 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Probably Yes	
2/26/2026 17:49:44	0	Pardhuman Soni	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	CZU	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Very Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	It is manageable but rising	Yes	30-40	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	below 10,000	below 10,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Migrate to another Country	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Maybe	
2/26/2026 17:54:04	0	Mukesh Choudhary	26–33	Male		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2023	CTU	Master's	Yes	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	Very Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, fully	20,000 to 40,000	Yes	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
2/26/2026 17:57:05	0	Manav Singh	26–33	Female		Graduated + Working (Post-study)	2022	CZU	Master's	Yes	Very Important	Extreme Important	Moderately Important	Extreme Important	Extreme Important	Very Important	Extremely Important	Extremely Important	Moderately Important	Very Important	Moderately Important	4	Yes, it is affordable	Yes	20-30	Yes, partially	20,000 to 40,000	Somewhat	10,000 to 15,000	10,000 to 15,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4,000 to 1,000	4	Stay and Work in Czechia	3 to 6 months	4	4	Part-time job	Yes	4	4	Definitely Yes	
